
    Set forth below are excerpts from FCC rules and policy 
    statements regarding cloning and/or modification of the 
    electronic serial number (ESN) in cellular phones.

    =================
    TABLE OF CONTENTS
    =================

    A.	Federal Communications Commission Report and Order 
	(CC Docket Nos. 92-115, 94-46, and 93-116)
	Adopted: August 2, 1994	Released: September 9, 1994
	Rule Changes Effective: January 1, 1995

	1.  Excerpt, Parapgraphs 54-63

	2.  Excerpt, Appendix A
	    Detailed Discussion of Part 22 Rule Amendments 
	    Section 22.919 Elecrtonic serial numbers.

	3.  Excerpt, Appendix B - Final Rules
	    New FCC Rule Section 22.919
	    47 C.F.R. Section 22.919

    B.	FCC's Stated Position on Rules and Policy 
	Prior to Rule Changes in CC Docket No. 92-115

    If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me:



		Bob Keller (KY3R)
		==============================
		Robert J. Keller, P.C.
		------------------------------
		Federal Telecommunications Law
		4200 Wisconsin Ave NW #106-261
		Washington, DC 20016-2143  USA
		------------------------------
		Internet: rjk@telcomlaw.com
		Telephone:  +1 301.229.5208
		Facsimile:  +1 301.229.6875
		CompuServe UID:  76100.3333
		==============================

    ===========================================================
A.  Federal Communications Commission
    Report and Order (CC Docket Nos. 92-115, 94-46, and 93-116)
    Adopted: August 2, 1994	Released: September 9, 1994
    Rule Changes Effective: January 1, 1995
    ===========================================================

    --------------------------
1.  Excerpt, Parapgraphs 54-63:
    --------------------------

    Cellular Electronic Serial Numbers

    54.  Proposal. We proposed in the Notice a new rule 
(Section 22.919) intended to help reduce the fraudulent use of 
cellular equipment caused by tampering with the unique 
Electronic Serial Numbers (ESN) that identify mobile equipment 
to cellular systems. The purposes of the ESN in a cellular 
telephone are similar to the Vehicle Identification Numbers in 
automobiles. That is, it uniquely identifies the equipment in 
order to assist in recovery if it is stolen. More importantly, 
in the case of cellular telephones, the ESN enables the 
carriers to bill properly for calls made from the telephone. 
Any alteration of the ESN renders it useless for this purpose. 
The proposed rule explicitly establishes anti-fraud design 
specifications that require, among other things, that the ESN 
must be programmed into the equipment at the factory and must 
not be alterable, removable, or in any way able to be 
manipulated in the field. In addition, the proposed rules 
require that the ESN component be permanently attached to a 
main circuit board of the mobile transmitter and that the 
integrity of the unit's operating software not be alterable.

    55.  Comments. The commenters generally support our 
proposal,[94] but they suggest some modifications. For example, 
BellSouth, Southwestern Bell, GTE, and CIA suggest that our 
proposal should be modified to provide that equipment already 
manufactured, is exempt from the rule.[95]  They argue that 
subjecting existing phones to this rule would be very expensive 
and difficult, if not impossible, to implement. Therefore, they 
recommend that the rule apply only to phones manufactured after 
a particular date.[96]  NYNEX recommends that we not require 
the ESN chip to be secured to the main circuit board of the 
mobile transmitter as proposed. Rather, NYNEX suggests that the 
ESN chip be attached to the frame of the radio and attached to 
the logic board by cable.[97]  In addition, it recommends that 
operating sofrware be encoded or scattered over different 
memory chips.[98]  Motorola, Inc. (Motorola) and Ericsson Corp. 
(Ericsson), two manufacturers of cellular mobile equipment, 
suggest that the proposal be modified to allow authorized 
service centers or representatives to make necessary and 
required changes to ESNs in mobile and portable units in the 
field.[99]

    56.  Southwestern Bell recommends that the rule also apply 
to mobile equipment associated with a wireless private branch 
exchange (PBX).[100]  CTIA suggests that the proposal be 
modified in several respects. First, it states that we should 
clarify that requiring a mobile transmitter to have a "unique" 
ESN, means that any particular ESN will not exist in more than 
one mobile unit. Second, CTIA suggests that ESN manipulation 
not be permitted "outside a manufacturer's authorized 
facility." Third, it requests that cellular mobile units be 
required to be designed to comply with the "applicable industry 
standard for authentication."[101]  New Vector supports the 
proposed rule, but emphasizes that the ESN criteria should be 
incorporated into the type-acceptance rules to clarify that 
manufacturers will be subject to the Commission's enforcement 
procedures if they do not comply with the ESN requirements.[102]

    57.  C2+ Technology (C2+) requests that we allow companies 
to market ancillary cellular equipment that emulates ESNs for 
the purpose of allowing more than one cellular phone to have 
the same telephone number. It argues that emulating ESNs in the 
way it describes benefits the public, does not involve fraud, 
and retains the security and integrity of the cellular 
phones.[103]  In opposition, Ericsson asserts that the rules 
should include procedures to ensure that ESNs are not easily 
transferable through the use of an encrypted data transfer 
device.[104]  Similarly, New Par suggests that the proposed 
rule proscribe activity that does not physically alter the chip 
yet affects the radiated ESN by translating the ESN signal that 
the mobile unit transmits.[105]

    58.  Discussion. The record before us demonstrates the need 
for measures that will help reduce the fraudulent use of 
cellular equipment caused by tampering with the ESN. We 
therefore adopt the proposed rule for the reasons set forth 
below.

    59.  Contrary to the suggestion of one commenter, the ESN 
rule will not prevent a consumer from having two cellular 
telephones with the same telephone number. Changing the ESN 
emitted by a cellular telephone to be the same as that emitted 
by another cellular telephone does not create an "extension" 
cellular telephone. Rather, it merely makes it impossible for 
the cellular system to distingnish between the two telephones. 
We note that Commission rules do not prohibit assigmnent of the 
same telephone number to two or more cellular telephones.[106]  
It is technically possible to have the same telephone number 
for two or more cellular telephones, each having a unique 
ESN.[107]  If a cellular carrier wishes to provide this 
service, it may. In this connection, we will not require that 
use of cellular telephones comply with an industry 
authentication procedure as requested by CTIA, as this could 
have the unintended effect of precluding multiple cellular 
telephones (each with a unique ESN) from having the same 
telephone number.

    60.  Further, we conclude that the practice of altering 
cellular phones to "emulate" ESNs without receiving the 
permission of the relevant cellular licensee should not be 
allowed because (1) simultaneous use of cellular telephones 
fraudulently emitting the same ESN without the licensee's 
permission could cause problems in some cellular systems such 
as erroneous tracking or billing; (2) fraudulent use of such 
phones without the licensee's permission could deprive cellular 
carriers of monthiy per telephone revenues to which they are 
entitled; and (3) such altered phones not authorized by the 
carrier, would therefore not fall within the licensee's blanket 
license, and thus would be uniicensed transmitters in violation 
of Section 301 of the Act. Therefore, we agree with New Par and 
Ericsson that the ESN rule should proscribe activity that does 
not physically alter the ESN, but affects the radiated ESN, 
including activities that transfer ESNs through the use of an 
encrypted data transfer device.

    61.  With respect to the proposal to allow alteration of 
ESNs by manufacturers' authorized service centers or 
representatives, we note that computer software to change ESNs, 
which is intended to be used only by authorized service 
personnel, might become available to unauthorized persons 
through privately operated computer "bulletin boards". We have 
no knowledge that it is now possible to prevent unauthorized 
use of such software for fraudulent purposes. Accordingly, we 
decline to make the exception requested by Motorola and 
Ericsson.

    62.  We further agree with the commenters that it would be 
impractical to apply the new rule to existing equipment. 
Accordingly, we are not requiring that cellular equipment that 
is currently in use or has received a grant of type-acceptance 
be modified or retrofitted to comply with the requirements of 
this rule. Thus, the ESN rule will apply only to cellular 
equipment for which initial type-acceptance is sought after the 
date that our rules become effective. Nevertheless, with regard 
to existing equipment, we conclude that cellular telephones 
with altered ESNs do not comply with the cellular system 
compatibility specification[108] and thus may not be considered 
authorized equipment under the original type acceptance. 
Accordingly, a consumer's knowing use of such altered equipment 
would violate our rules. We further believe that any individual 
or company that knowingly alters cellular telephones to cause 
them to transmit an ESN other than the one originally installed 
by the manufacturer is aiding in the violation of our rules. 
Thus, we advise all cellular licensees and subscribers that the 
use of the C2+ altered cellular telephones constitutes a 
violation of the Act and our rules.

    63.  With respect to NYNEX's proposed modifications for 
securing the ESN chip to the mobile transmitter, the record 
does not convince us that these modifications will make the ESN 
rule more effective. Therefore, we do not adopt NYNEX's 
proposal. We agree with Southwestern Bell that the ESN rule 
should apply to mobile equipment associated with wireless PBX 
if the equipment can also be used on cellular systems. We also 
clarify that the new ESN rule prohibits the installation of an 
ESN in more than one mobile transmitter. Finally, as suggested 
by New Vector, we amend the type-acceptance rule to refer to 
the newly adopted ESN rule.[109]

    [Footnotes]

    [94]  See PacTel Comments at 2; CTIA Comments at 7-8.

    [95]  BellSouth Comments at Appendix 2, p.36; Southwestern 
Bell Comments at 28-29; GTE Comments at 30; CTIA Comments at 8.

    [96]  For example, BellSouth suggests that the anti-fraud 
measures should not apply to equipment type-accepted before 
January 1, 1993.

    [97]  NYNEX Comments at 8.

    [98]  Id. at 8-9.

    [99]  Ericsson Reply Comments at 2-5; Motorola Reply 
Comments at 3.

    [100]  Southwestern Bell Comments at 29.

    [101]  CTIA Comments at 8.

    [102]  New Vector Comments at Appendix I, p.44.

    [103]   C2+ Comments at 1-2.

    [104]   Ericsson Reply Comments at 3-4.

    [105]   New Par Comments at 21-22.

    [106]   The telephone number is referred to in the cellular 
compatibility specification as the Mobile Identification Number 
or "MIN"

    [107]   It is not technically necessary to have the same 
ESN in order to have the same telephone number. Nevertheless, 
the authentication software used by some cellular systems does 
not permit two cellular telephones with the same telephone 
number. In such cases, cellular carriers should explain to 
consumers who request this service that their system is not yet 
capable of providing it.

    [108]   See old  Section 22.915, which becomes new  Section 
22.933 in Appendices A and B.

    [109]   See discussion of new  Section 22.377 in Appendix A.

    ----------------------------------------------
2.  Excerpt, Appendix A
    Detailed Discussion of Part 22 Rule Amendments
    Section 22.919 Elecrtonic serial numbers.
    ----------------------------------------------

    Section 22.919 Electronic serial numbers.

    The purpose of this new section is to deter cellular fraud 
by requiring that the Electronic Serial Number (ESN) unique to 
each cellular phone be factory set, inalterable, 
non-transferable, and otherwise tamper-proof and free of 
fraudulent manipulation in the field.  This subject received 
substantial attention from commenters and is discussed in the 
Report and Order.

    ---------------------------------
3.  Excerpt, Appendix B - Final Rules
    New FCC Rule Section 22.919
    47 C.F.R. Section 22.919
    ---------------------------------

    22.919 Electronic serial numbers.

    The Electronic Serial Number (ESN) is a 32 bit binary 
    number that uniquely identifies a cellular mobile 
    transmitter to any cellular system.

    	(a) Each mobile transmitter in service must have a 
	    unique ESN.

	(b) The ESN host component must be permanently attached 
	    to a main circuit board of the mobile transmitter 
	    and the integrity of the unit's operating software 
	    must not be alterable.  The ESN must be isolated 
	    from fraudulent contact and tampering.  If the ESN 
	    host component does not contain other information, 
	    that component must not be removable, and its 
	    electrical connections must not be accessible.  If 
	    the ESN host component contains other information, 
	    the ESN must be encoded using one or more of the 
	    following techniques:

		(1) Multiplication or division by a polynomial;

		(2) Cyclic coding;

		(3) The spreading of ESN bits over various non-
		    sequential memory locations.

        (c) Cellular mobile equipment must be designed such 
	    that any attempt to remove, tamper with, or change 
	    the ESN chip, its logic system, or firmware 
	    originally programmed by the manufacturer will 
	    render the mobile transmitter inoperative.

	(d) The ESN must be factory set and must not be 
	    alterable, transferable, removable or otherwise 
	    able to be manipulated in the field.  Cellular 
	    equipment must be designed such that any attempt to 
	    remove, tamper with, or change the ESN chip, its 
	    logic system, or firmware originally programmed by 
	    the manufacturer will render the mobile transmitter 
	    inoperative.

    =============================================
B.  FCC's Stated Position on Rules and Policy
    Prior to Rule Changes in CC Docket No. 92-115
    =============================================

    PUBLIC NOTICE

    FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

    COMMON CARRIER PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES INFORMATION

    October 2, 1991
    Report No. CL-92-3

    CHANGING ELECTRONIC SERIAL NUMBERS ON CELLULAR
    PHONES IS A VIOLATION OF THE COMMISSION'S RULES


    It has come to the attention of the Mobile Services
    Division that individuals and companies may be altering
    the Electronic Serial Number ( ESN)  on cellular phones.
    Paragraph 2.3.2 in OST Bulletin No. 53 (Cellular System
    Mobile Station - Land Station Compatibility Specification,
    July, 1983) states that "[a]ttempts to change the serial
    number circuitry should render the mobile station
    inoperative." The 1981 edition of these compatibility
    specifications (which contains the same wording) was
    included as Appendix D in CC Docket 79-318 and
    is incorporated into Section 22.915 of the Commission's
    rules.

    Phones with altered  ESNs do not comply with the
    Commission's rules and any individual or company operating
    such phones or performing such alterations is in violation
    of Section 22.915 of the Commission's rules and could be
    subject to appropriate enforcement action.

    Questions concerning this Public Notice should be addressed
    to Steve Markendorff at 202-653-5560 or Andrew Nachby at
    202-632-6450.


