                   $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$
                   %                                       %
                   $ Kitchen Improvised Plastic Explosives $
                   %                                       %
                   $               PART I                  $
                   %   How to make plastique from bleach.  %
                   $                                       $
                   %                                       %
                   $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$

     This is the first in a serries of articles dealing with the process of
making platic explosives.  In the articles I will discuss different types of
plastic explosives, there origin and finally hold to produce them with suplies
that are found in a usual house-hold.

     This information was orignally written by Tim Lewis, and was typed in and
uploaded by myself, (Agrajag).  This article will take you through step by step
process of making plastic explosive from common house-hold bleach.

                         Plastique Explosive from Bleach

     This explosive is a Potassium chlorate explosive.  This explosive and
explosives of similar composition were used in WWI as the main ecplosive filler
in grenades, land mines, and morter rounds used by French, German, and some
other forces involved in that conflict.

     These explosives are relatively safe to manufcture.  By RELATIVELY SAFE, I
mean just that!  DON'T SCREW AROUND WITH THIS SHIT, EITHER MAKE IT OR DON'T!  I
hate to hear of a phreak buying it because he was fucking with some chemicals
and then it blew up in his face.  The procedures in the following paragraph CAN
BE DANGEROUS, if you don't take special care, and watch what you are doing!

     On should strive to make sure these explosives are free from sulfure,
sulfides, and picric acid.  The presence of these compounds result in mixtures
that are or can become highly sensitive and possibly decompose explosively while
in storage.  One should never store home made explosives, make enough for what
you need at the time.  YOU NEVER KNOW HOW STABLE IT IS UNTIL IT BLOWS!

     The manufacter of this explosive from bleach is given just as an expediant
method.  This method of manufacturing potassium chlorate is not economical due
to the amount of energy used to boil the solution and cause the "Dissociation"
reaction to take place.  The procedure does work and yields a relatively pure
and a sulfur, sulfide free product.

     These explosives are very cap sensitive and require only a #3 cap for
instigating detonation.

     To manufacture potassium chlorate from bleach, (5.25% sodium hypochlorite
solution), obtain a heat source, hot-plate, stove, etc., etc. a battery
hydrometer, a large pyrex or enameled steel container, (to weigh chemicals), and
some potassium chloride, (sold as salt substitute).

     Take one gallon of bleach and place it in the container and begin heating
it.  While this solution heats, weigh out 63 grams potassium chloride and add
this to the bleach being heated.  Bring this solution to a boil and boil until
when checked with a hydrometer the reading is 1.3, (if battery hydrometer is
used, it should read FULL charge.)

     When the reading is 1.3 take the solution and let it cool in the
refrigerator until it is between room temperature and 0 degrees celcius. Filter
out the crystals that have formed and save them.  Boil this solution again and
cool as before.  Filter and save the crystals.

     Take these crystals that have been saved and mix them with distilled water
in the following proportions: 56 grams per 100 milileters distilled water. Heat
this solution until it boils and allow to cool.  Filter the solution and save
the crystals the form upon cooling.  This process of purification is called
fractional crystalization.  these crystals should be relatively pure potassium
chlorate.

     Power these to the consistancy of face powder and heat gently to drive off
all moisture.

     Melt five parts vaseline and five parts wax.  Disslove this in white
gasoline, (camp stove gasoline), and pour this liquid on 90 parts potassium
chlorate, (the powdered crystals from above), in a plastic bowl.

     Knead this liquid into the potassium chlorate until intimately mixed.
Allow all the gasoline to evaporate.

     Place this explosive in a cool dry place. Avoid friction, sulfur, sulfides,
and phophorous compounds.  This explosive is best molded to the desired shape
and density of 1.3 grams in a cube and dipped in wax till water proof.  These
block type charges guarantee the highest detonation velocity.

                  Live long and prosper,
                         Agrajag

Ps,  I would like to thank Tim Lewis, the autor of "Kitchen Improvised Plastic
Explosives" for this information.  You may obtain a catalog of other books of
this and other natures by writing:

      Information Publishing Co.
      Box 10042, Odessa, Texas.
      79762


%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%

                   $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$
                   %                                       %
                   $ Kitchen Improvised Platic Explosives. $
                   %                                       %
                   $               PART II                 $
                   %           RDX Manufacture             %
                   $                                       $
                   $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$

     This is the second in a series of articles dealing with the production of
plastic explosives.  This article will cover step by step (SXS?) instructions on
how to make RDX, which is the main ingrediant in the rest of the plastic
explosives I will cover.  The information in this and all of the other articles
dealing with the production of plastic explosives was orignally written by
written by Tim Lewis in a book called,"Kitchen Improvised Plastic Explosives". I
will give the address to send for this and many other books and the end of this
article.

     THE PRODUCTION OF RDX IS VERY DANGEROUS IF YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU ARE
DOING.  DO NOT ATTEMPT ANY OF THIS IF YOU WISH TO LIVE TILL YOUR NEXT BIRTHDAY!

     Since the first part of WWII the armed forces of the United States has been
searching for the perfect plastique explosives to be used in demolition work.
This search lead to the development of the 'C' composition plastique explosives.
 Of this group C-4 being the lastest formulation that has been readily adopted
by the armed forces.  This formulation was preceded by C-3, C-2, and C.

     In this series of articles, I will cover all these explosives in their
chronological progression as they were developed and standardized by the armed
forces.  All these explosives are cyclonite or R.D.X. base with various
plastisizing agents used to achieve the desired product.

     This plastisizer, usually composes 7%-20% of the total weight of the
plastique.

     Cyclotrimethylenetrinittrime or cyclonite is manufactured in bulk by the
nitration of hexamethylenetetramine, (methenamine, hexamine, etc., etc.) with
strong red 100% nitric acid.

     The hardest part of this reaction is obtaining this red nitric acid.  It
will most likely have to be made.  More on this later.

     Hexamine or methenamine can usually be bought in bulk quantities or
hexamine fuel bars for camp stoves can be used but they end up being very
explensive.  To use the fuel bars the need to be powered before hand.

     The hexamine can also be made with common ammonia water (30%) and the
commonly avaliable 36% formaldehyde solution.  To make this componant place 185
grams of clear ammonia water in a shallow pyrex dish.  To this add 500 ml. of
the formaldehyde solution to the ammonia water.  Allow this to evaporate and
when the crystals are all that remains in the pan place the pan in the oven on
the lowest heat that the oven has.  This should be done only for a moment or so
to drive off any remaining water.  These crystals are scraped up and placed in a
airtight jar to store them until they are used.

     To make the red nitric acid you will need to buy a retort with a ground
glass stopper.  In the retort place 32 grams sulfuric acid, (98%-100%), and to
this add 68 grams of potassium nitrate or 58 grams of sodium nitrate.  Gently
heating this retort will generate a red gas called nitrogen trioxide.  THIS GAS
IS HIGHLY POISONOUS AND THIS STEP, AS WITH ALL OTHER STEPS, SHOULD BE DONE WITH
GOOD VENTILATION.

     This nitric aced that is formed will collect in the neck of the retort and
form droplets that will run down the inside of the neck of the retort and should
be caught in a beaker cooled by being surrounded by ice water.

     This should be heated till no more collects in the neck of the retort and
the nitric acid quits dripping out of the neck into the beaker.

     This acid should be stored until enough acid is generated to produce the
required size batch which is determined by the person producing the ecplosive.
Of course the batch can be larger or smaller but the same rations should be
maintained.

     To make R.D.X. place 550 grams of the nitric acid produced by the above
procedure in a 1000 ml. beaker in a salted bath.  50 grams of hexamine,
(methenamine) is added in small portions making sure that the temperature of the
acid DOES NOT GO ABOVE 30 DEGREES CELCIUS.  This temperature can be monitored by
placing a thermometer directly in the acid mixture.  During this procedure a
vigerous stirring should be maintained.  If the temperature approches 30
degrees, IMMEDIATLY STOP THE ADDITION OF THE HEXAMINE until the temperature
drops to an acceptable level.

     After the addition is complete continue the stirring and allow the
temperature to drop to 0 degrees celcius and allow it to stay there for 20
minutes coninuing the vigerous stirring.  After the 20 minutes are up, pour this
acid-hexamine mixture into 1000 ml. of finely crushed ice and water. Crystals
should form and are filtered out of the liquid.

     The crystals that are filtered out are R.D.X. and will need to have all
traces of the acid removed.  To remove this trace of acid, first wash these
crystals by putting them in ice water and shaking and refiltering.  These
crystals are then placed in a little boiling water and filtered.  Place them in
some warm water and check the acidity for the resultant suspension with litmus
paper.  You want it to read between 6 and 7 on the Ph scale.  If there is still
acid in these crystals reboil them in fresh water until the acid is removed and
the litmus paper shows them between 6 and 7, (the closer to 7 the better).

     To be safe these crystals should be stored water wet until ready for use.
THESE CRYSTALS ARE A VERY HIGH EXPLOSIVE AND SHOULD BE TREATED WITH THE RESPECT
THEY DESERVE!  This explosive is much more powerful than T.N.T.

     To use, these will need to be dryed for some manufaturing processes in the
next few articles.  To dry these crystals, place them in a pan and spread them
out and allow the water to evaporate off them until the are completely dry.

     This explosive will detonate in this dry form when pressed into a mold to a
density of 1.55 grams cubed, at a velocity of 8550 M/second!

                    COMPARISON OF DETONATION VELOCITIES
     +------------------------------------------------------------------------+
8600 !                                                                        !
8500 !             %%%%%%%%%%                                                 !
8400 !             %%%%%%%%%%                                                 !
8300 !             %%%%%%%%%%                                                 !
8200 !             %%%%%%%%%%                                                 !
8100 !             %%%%%%%%%%                                      %%%%%%%%%% !
8000 !             %%%%%%%%%%                                      %%%%%%%%%% !
7900 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%                          %%%%%%%%%% !
7800 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%                          %%%%%%%%%% !
7700 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%              %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7600 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7500 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7400 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7300 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7200 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7100 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
7000 !             %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
6900 ! %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
6800 ! %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%%  %%%%%%%%%% !
     +------------------------------------------------------------------------+
         T.N.T       R.D.X.       "C"         "C-2"       "C-3"      "C-4"

                                Live long and prosper,
                                       Agrajag

Ps, The information from above was obtained from a book, "Kitchen Improvised
Plastic Explosives", by Tim Lewis and the Information Publishing Company.  You
may obtain a catolog of books that they sell by writing:

         Information Publishing Co.
         Box 10042
         Odessa, Texas, 79762

%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%

                   %$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%
                   $                                       $
                   % Kitchen Improvised Plastic Explosives %
                   $                                       $
                   %              PART III                 %
                   $                                       $
                   %  Manufacture of type 'C' explosives   %
                   $                                       $
                   $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$

     This article will deal with the production of type 'C' plastic explosive
compound.  If you have not read my other two articles, you will need to so you
can get some safety precations and the recipe for making R.D.X.

     All of the type 'C' plastic explosives (that includes C-2, C-3, and C-4)
are exceedingly powerful and should be used with utmost care.  (See K.I.P.E.
Part II for detonation chart).

     This explosive is just a copy of a British explosive that was adopted early
in WWII.  This explosive is the choice explosive of the type 'C' compounds
becuase of its relative ease of maufacture and the easy aquisition of the
plastizer compound.  This explosive was available in standard demolition blocks.

     This explosive was standardized and adopted in the following composition:

R.D.X.......................... 88.3%
Heavy mineral oil.............. 11.1%
Lecithin.......................   .6%

   (All percentages are by weight)

     In this composition, the lecithin acts to prevent the formation of large
crystals of R.D.X. which would increase the sensitivity of the explosive.  This
explosive has a good deal of power and is relatively non-toxic, (except when
ingested).

     It is also plastic from 0-40 degrees celcius.  Above 40 degrees the
explosive undergoes extrudation and becomes gummy although its explosive
properties go realatively unimpaired.  Below 0 degrees celcius it becomes
brittle and its cap sensitivity is lessened considerably.

     Manufacturing this explosive can be done two ways.  First being to dissolve
the 11.7% plastisizing in unleaded gasoline and mixing with the R.D.X. and
allowing the gasoline to evaporate until the mixture is free of all gasoline.

     The second method being the simple kneading of the plastisizing compound
into the R.D.X. until a uniform mixture is obtained.

     This explosive should be stored in a cool-dry place.  If properly made the
plastique should be very stable in storage even if stored at elevated
temparatures for long periods of time. It should be very cap sensitive.  A
booster will be a good choice, especially if used below 0 degrees celcius. This
detonates at a velocity of 7900 M/second.

                     Live long and don't get caught,
                              Agrajag

     This information was originally written by Tim Lewis in a book called,
"Kitchen Improvised Plastic Explosives".  You can obtain a copy od this book, or
a catalog by writing:

          Information Publishing Company
          Box 10042, Odessa Texas
          79762

%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%

                   %$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%
                   $                                       $
                   % Kitchen Improvised Plastic Explosives %
                   $                                       $
                   %               PART IV                 %
                   $                                       $
                   %    How to make type 'C-2' and 'C-3'   %
                   $       plastic explosive compound.     $
                   %                                       %
                   $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$

     This article will cover the production of plastic explosives of the type
'C-2' and 'C-3'.  These are highly undesirable because of certain trait each has
and they don't produce as much power as 'C' and 'C-4' compounds.

     It is not recamended you make these two types of plastique, this article
was written for imformatative purposes only.  (Just so you can act like you know
what you are doing).

     Composition 'C-2' is harder to make than 'C-4' and is TOXIC TO HANDLE.  It
is also unstable in storage and is poor choice for home explosive manufature. It
also has a lower detonation velocity than either 'C-4' or 'C-3'.

     It is manufactured in a steam jacketed (heated) melting kettle using the
same procedure used in incorperation of 'C-3'.  Its composition is as follows:

R.D.X................. 80%
  (Equal parts of them following:)
        Mononitrotolulene
        Dinitrotolulene
        T.N.T. guncotton
        Dimethylformide......... 20%

           (See Below for rest of recipe)

     'C-3' was developed to eliminate the undesirable aspects of 'C-2'.  It was
standardized and adopted by the military as following composition:

R.D.X................ 77%
Mononitrotolulene.... 16%
Dinitrotolulene......  5%
Tetryl...............  1%
T.N.T. guncotton.....  1%

     'C-3' is manufactured by mixing the plastisizing agent in a steam jacketed
melting kettle equipped with a mechanical stirring attachment.  The kettle is
heated to 90-100 degrees Celcius and the stirrer is activated.  Water wet R.D.X.
is added to the plastisizing agent and the stirring is continued until a uniform
mixture is obtained and all water has been driven off.  Remove the heat source
but continue to stir the mixture until it has cooled to room temperature.

     This explosive is as sensitive to impact as is T.N.T.  Storage at 65
degrees Celcius for four months at a relative humidity of 95% does not impair
it's explosive properties.

     'C-3' is 133% as good as an explosive as good as an explsive as is T.N.T.
The major drawback of 'C-3' is its volatility which causes it to lose 1.2% of
its weight although the explosives detonation properties are not affected.

     Water does not affect explosives preformance.  It therefore is very good
for under-water demolition uses and would be a good choice for such an
application.

    When stored at 77 degrees Celcius considerable extrudation takes place.  It
will become hard at -29 degrees Celcius and is hard to detonate at this
temperature.

    While this explosive is not unduely toxic, it should be handled with care
as it contains aryl-nitro compounds which are absorbed through the skin.

    It will reliably take detonation from a #6 blasting cap but the use of a
booster is always suggested.  This explosive has a great blast effect and was
still is avaliable in standard demolition blocks.

    Its detonation velocity is approximately 7700 M/second.

                       Live long and prosper,
                            Agrajag


