



            ษ*อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ*อป
            บ                                      บ
            บ      A REALITY CHECK ON ANARCHY      บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ                  OR                  บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ HOW TO BE AN ANARCHIST & STILL AVOID บ
            บ             A PRISON TERM            บ
            ฬออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออน
            บ           FROM THE DESK OF:          บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ         ** MIDNIGHT RIDER **         บ
            ศ*อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ*อผ
             * Find me at:                       *
             *                                   *
             * Kaos BBS (xxx) xxx-9561           *
             *                                   *
             * Asagard BBS (xxx) xxx-3371        *
             * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *




** A minor disclaimer; In this text I use all forms of the
masculine in reference to he/she him/her man/woman. Any woman who
may be offended by my unwillingness to spend the extra time
required in typing that type of bullshit should quit reading now.
If just reading this disclaimer is enough to offend you, send me
E-mail at one of the above locations and I'll set up an
appointment for you to blow me. **












INTRO - WHO AM I? WHAT IS THIS CRAP?

      Good questions to ask. I am ME. As for statistics; I'm 31,
live near a major city, work in a "white collar" job, have 10
years Navy experience in electronics/computers & radar. As for my
experience/reputation as an Anarchist; I'm the guy you look and
say "How the fuck does he get away with all that bullshit?". I
have been living on the outskirts of society all my life. At
several points in my life, I tried to be "normal", to be like
everyone else, to "fit in". I finally realized the futility of
these efforts. I'm not like everyone else, I'm better! I've
studied the thinking and beliefs of every group I could find that
appeared to live outside the norm. Satanists, Anarchists,
Musicians, Witches, Criminals... They've all given me pieces of
what I am today. I don't know that I now fit into any certain
group. If I do, it would be a very secret and elite group. I know
the power of the human mind and body and I know how to use it and
control it. I know how to live outside society and I know how to
walk right through the middle of it without being noticed. This
article (possibly a series of articles) is a compilation of
observations, opinions, and, wherever possible, factual
information. I don't expect most people would agree with any or
all I have to say here. Most people do not have the level of
understanding and knowledge I have obtained. I share this with
you in the hopes that those of you who belong in this group will
gain some insight and if needed, some direction. Feel free to E-
mail me and express your arguments, disagreements or support.
Through this manner I may consistently learn and grow more
powerful.















PART I - WHAT IS ANARCHY?

ANARCHY (noun): insurrection, lawlessness, mobocracy, ochlocracy,
revolution, chaos, bedlam, disorder, tumult
ANARCHY (antonym): discipline, order

     To be an anarchist implies the practice of all of the former
and to lack the latter. This seems to be taken to the extreme by
the majority of those who choose to call themselves anarchist.
Unfortunately, to practice anarchy without any order or
discipline is more indicative of a rebellious teen attitude than
a developed practice of anarchist belief.


     I have searched through the anarchy files of a number of
BBS's in the hopes of gleaning some useful information. What I
find instead are the immature ramblings of what seems to be a
group of 16 year old metal heads trying to find their way through
life, or possibly, someone older who has still not defined where
he is in the world. Files like "How to trash K-mart" or "How to
trash your school" have no place in the anarchists library. The
true anarchist is simply a person who is unlike "the majority"
and senses the unfairness of having to conform to the rules of
society.

     Don't misread me or be offended. It is not my intention to
degrade anyone. It IS my intention to make the distinction
between "Teenage Fun" (regardless of the age you may be when
practicing such antics) and true Anarchy. There are those of you
who might say that teenage fun does not go to the degree of
explosives and killing. I disagree! It depends on which group of
teenagers you choose. "Fun" is reckless and serves little useful
purpose other than to entertain or alleviate boredom. Anarchy is
the method through which we (the Anarchists) attempt to live with
and among the idiots around us.







     The first belief of the Anarchist must be that he is
"different" from most of the population. He must understand that
he is, in most respects, better than them. He must know and
understand that *most* people (i.e. non-anarchists  or  the
general population, including government and law enforcement) are
mindless idiots who follow a pattern of life rather than to think
independently.

     For the most part, it is the idiots who hold much of the
power. They are the majority! There is strength in numbers.
Numerous battles have proven the power of numbers over
technology. Unfortunately, it is technology on which the
Anarchist must rely. In doing so, he immediately is at a
disadvantage. Conversely, the Anarchist is far more intelligent
than society. It is throughout the use of this intelligence that
he manages to exploit the loopholes found in common law and
accepted norm.




     Some common traits of the Anarchist:
          1) He is considered "weird" by most people
          2) He has an above average IQ
          3) He feels a sense of "not belonging"
          4) He has little tolerance for ignorance and stupidity
          5) He is not afraid of life or death
          6) He feels emotion more strongly than others
          7) He is an opportunist

     Most of that is pretty self explanatory, but I will expound
on a few of those points. On the first point, the distinction
should be made between the Anarchist "weird" and the "loser -
weird". Some people (losers) act weird for attention. Acting
retarded is the only thing they can do well enough to get
recognized. The Anarchist is "weird" because he cannot and will
not conform to the rules and laws of "normal" society. This ties
in closely with point three. Society has set certain standards
for how one should dress or act at social functions, on the job,
in school, in public, etc. These standards are set by the
majority (and we've already established that the majority is
nothing but a large group of ignorant assholes), and are designed
to control the actions of those who are largely incapable of
independent thinking. The Anarchist cannot conform to these
standards because he *is* capable of independent thinking. This
is not to say that he must lack social grace entirely, but rather
that he is his true self at all times. The Anarchist is not
hypocritical in his actions or words. The last line should not be
misinterpreted in any way to mean that an Anarchist chooses to
die. It means exactly what it says, that he does not fear death.
The Anarchist understands and accepts the inevitability of death.
To a large degree, one cannot choose when one will die, however
one should not live his life either towards or away from death.
Do not be so foolish or reckless as to cause your own death for
lack of caring!


PART II - WHEN DO I GET TO BLOW THINGS UP?

     In essence, you don't. At least, you cannot cause damage
without purpose. The Anarchist feels all emotions to their
extremes and acts accordingly. If someone earns your love and/or
respect, show them that to every extreme possible. Likewise, if
someone earns your hatred, destroy them completely. Death is not
a recommended means of destroying enemies, it frees them from the
potential suffering they may have endured at your hands. It also
increases your chances for jail time. There is no statute of
limitations on murder. (It is possible to kill someone, if
necessary, without risking internment. In time, I may reveal
these methods to those who are capable). Everything the Anarchist
must have purpose in his life. Actions that are clearly illegal
are rarely as effective as those actions which may fall within a
more "grey" area of legality. An Anarchist cannot be effective
within the confines of a jail cell. Fortunately, most people are
sufficiently paranoid enough that, with the proper inducement,
they will destroy themselves! So, one of the first items the
Anarchist must carry in his bag of tricks is a clear
understanding of human psychology. He must learn to "read"
people. He is frequently "the quiet type" because he is too busy
watching and reading others to participate in their endless
psychobable. Drawing attention to yourself by spouting off at the
mouth or through foolish actions is counterproductive. The less
you speak and act, the more difficult it is for others to read
you! Let them wonder what you're up to!




PART III - WHEN DO I GET TO STEAL STUFF?

     When appropriate. See number 7 under common traits. Ripping
things off is sometimes the only reasonable means of procurement.
Especially if you need something that would be illegal to buy,
or, if you need something that you don't want traced back to you.
The idiots who own businesses, especially large corporations,
will milk you for every dime. The only way to even the odds is to
rip off what you can, and pay for what you have to. This should
help make up for the price gouging. As an opportunist, you should
always be on the lookout for possibilities. When you're driving,
take an extra minute to cruise through an area that's a little of
the beaten path. When you're in a business, look around for easy
targets. Check the vending machines. You'd be surprised how often
people forget to lock them! Sometimes, a machine is out of order
and works to your favor. Be alert and take advantage of other
peoples mistakes. A word of warning though, Sometimes, these
"opportunities" are left as traps. Make sure you know the
situation before you spring on something. It's much better to
walk away than to get busted!




PART IV - WHAT SHOULD I *NOT* DO?

     OK. Here's my current list of Anarchist no-no's. It is by no
means complete. By all means, common sense and the quest for
continued freedom a paramount.
  1) Do *not* believe that you can download 500 Anarchy
     files and not attract the attention of Law enforcement.
     The feds frequently monitor BBS's (as does the FCC). If
     they suspect you are a *real* threat they will find
     you!
  2) Do *not* (as one file suggested) walk into a bank and
     shoot the guard "to prove you are serious". The cops
     will be there before you leave and you will only
     "prove" that you are seriously stupid.
  3) Do *not* try to pull of some ATM scam and ignore the
     fact that nearly ALL ATM's have camera's built into
     them. Most ATM rip-off files I've seen totally ignore
     this.
  4) Do *not* experiment with making explosives in your
     house unless you are VERY sure of what you're doing.
     Many of the explosives "recipes" you can D/L are pure
     bullshit. At best, they don't work. At worst, they are
     highly unstable! If you've got to play, go out to your
     garage or somewhere.
  5) Many of the files that discuss how to fuck with people
     or get revenge say nothing of how one might accomplish
     these tasks without drawing attention to themselves.
     There are 2 solid rules to follow when you're fucking
     with some deserving asshole. #1 is; You are only
     effective if they KNOW it's you that's fucking with
     them. #2 is; They must not have any *proof* that it was
     you who committed these acts.
  6) Breaking into cars. I have not seen any "breaking into
     cars" files that mention the all to common presence of
     an alarm. Especially around the bigger cities, nearly
     everyone that has a car worth breaking into, has an
     alarm. Fortunately, most commercial alarms are lame
     pieces of shit, but you DO have to get past them!
  7) Telephone games. A tap may be useful/necessary at
     times, unfortunately most files on tapping are
     unsatisfactory. Either the quality of transmission is
     poor or detection is too easy. Bullshit files on frying
     modems seem to ignore the fact that the phone company
     (and most computers) have spike protection.


PART V - THE BEGINNING

     I've said a lot about what's wrong with the common Anarchist
and talked about what not to do. I would hardly be in a position
to complain if I didn't have any solutions or answers. Some of
what I know, I won't tell (for reasons that may later become
obvious). Much of the information I will share with you is just
plain common sense thinking. If you have a problem with the
things I said above, you are probably more prankster than
Anarchist and have no place reading any future files. I will
share my formula for living *above* society, for as Anarchists,
we *KNOW* we are better than society! If you must label me, then
call me a "white collar" anarchist. I work more with technology
and loopholes than explosives and weaponry. I'll give you a small
taste of what I'm talking about before I end this first article.

PART VI - NETWORKING

     One of the simplest methods of accomplishing a given task is
also one of the best methods for avoiding detection. It is known
well in the business community. For those unfamiliar with the
term; Networking in it's simplest terms means "having the right
friends". Preferably, you'd network with other Anarchist. A non-
anarchist may not be willing to go along with something bordering
on illegal. Then again, if you are using a non-anarchist, you may
be able to get him to play along without realizing what he's
doing. Look through your current list of family, friends,
neighbors, acquaintances and co-workers. You may know people that
have access to information that's difficult to get. You may know
someone who owns a business or equipment that can be useful.
Private detectives, phone company employees (or any utility),
police officers, doctors, lawyers, pharmacists... almost anyone
has potential. Often it is worthwhile to "make friends" with
someone you may need later. It's imperative to have as many
network options as possible. One important point of networking;
*KNOW* the level of trust you can expect from any contact. The
more people you involve at any one time, the more likely it is
that someone will shoot off at the mouth. Whenever possible, work
alone!


PART VII - EPILOGUE

     I haven't given you a bunch of info that you can run out and
do anything special with, yet. In future series, I will discuss
specific subjects and methods for accomplishment. I am
considering doing a "review" of current Anarchy files at some
point in time. If you have, or know of, any files that you
believe to be particularly good or bad, E-mail me at one of the
above boards.

                     *** MIDNIGHT RIDER ***



            ษ*อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ*อป
            บ                                      บ
            บ      A REALITY CHECK ON ANARCHY      บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ                 OR                   บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ HOW TO BE AN ANARCHIST & STILL AVOID บ
            บ            A PRISON TERM             บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ           *** PART II ***            บ
            บ                                      บ
            ฬออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออน
            บ           FROM THE DESK OF:          บ
            บ                                      บ
            บ         ** MIDNIGHT RIDER **         บ
            ศ*อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ*อผ
             * Find me at:                       *
             *                                   *
             * Kaos BBS (xxx) xxx-9561           *
             *                                   *
             * Alternative BBS (xxx)xxx-6504     *
             * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *




** Disclaimer/Note; Use this information in conjunction with
(rather than in spite of) your common sense. I am not and will
not advocate any activity which is clearly illegal. The way of
the true Anarchist is to use the law to his advantage. Know the
loopholes and know your limits. At the very least, always
remember this; You can do ANYTHING that you want, as long as
you're willing to accept ALL possible consequences (good or bad).
If you don't understand that philosophy, you needn't read
further.







INTRO - RECAP & EXPANSION

     This is the second in a series. If you have not read the
first part (AREALITY.TXT), stop now and read that first! If you
have read Part I and you are still here, you have obviously
decided that you are an "Outsider". If you're still not sure,
I'll give you a hint; If your main interests are collecting
PhiLeZ and wAreZ and you like hanging out with KeWl d000dz, you
are probably in the wrong place. I think *most* (if not all)
people go through a period of feeling like an outsider. If you
truly belong in this group, you have felt like an outsider ALL of
your life. My goal in writing these articles is to share my
knowledge with you. In doing so, I will hopefully accomplish two
things;   1) I will help you to avoid having to go through some
of the lessons I've learned on my way to getting where I am.  
and   2) I will attract the attention of others who are like me
and they will then share their knowledge with me, thus I may
avoid some harsh lessons not yet encountered.
     In Part I, I talked, in general terms, about how I (and
people like me) think and I started to discuss some of the
methods one might employ in living outside of societal norms and
law. The final chapter discussed the importance of maintaining a
good "network", so I'll start there.


PART I - WHAT DO I DO WITH THIS NETWORK THING?
 
     OK, so you now understand what a network is, but you're not
sure how to develop it or use it. You have looked at your list of
"friends" and identified the resources available through them.
Now what do you do? For the most part, you do nothing until you
need to access those resources. For right now, you need only do
two things; 1) Cultivate the contacts you have. Few people will
want to help you if you only call them when you need something.
Maintain friendly contact with these people as frequently as
possible. Buy them lunch. Do things for them and they will want
to do things for you.  2) Determine where your network is lacking
and assess your ability to eliminate these weak areas.
Admittedly, this could prove to be rather difficult.




     There are two rather critical contacts that are worth a
great deal of effort to establish, a lawyer and an accountant.
Any lawyer will "represent" you for a fee. If you've ever had the
displeasure of needing legal services, you soon realize that some
lawyers graduated at the bottom of their class! Paying for legal
representation does not guarantee any level of quality. There
will also be times when you only need legal advice. Your best bet
all around is to have a "friend" who also happens to be a decent
lawyer. An accountant is almost as critical to you. Accountants
know all the tricks for keeping what money you have, and creating
new money sources. It would be extremely costly to seek the
advice of an accountant on a regular basis, having one as a
"friend" allows you to bring up your questions in friendly (and
free) conversations.
     With any luck, you already know these people, maybe a
relative or neighbor. If you don't, it can be difficult to
establish yourself in such circles as these types of people might
associate. It's always worth the effort to do anything possible
to get connected with the right people. 

PART II - LIVING DAY TO DAY

     As an "outsider", your main purpose in life is not Anarchy
in it's most literal sense. Your use of Anarchist belief and
technique is but a means by which you can live amongst those that
are lesser than you. On a day to day basis, you have little need
for anything that even borders on criminal activity. When the
need for explosives or revenge tactics does arise, there are a
million files available in any Anarchy section of your favorite
BBS. What people *don't* tell you is all the insider tips, tricks
and secrets you can use in every day living. There's a good
reason for this. Most of these methods exist because of loopholes
in existing law and policy, if they are employed by too many
people, they will become obvious and, shortly thereafter, closed
(I will share some of these tips with you later). The other key
to living as an outsider is something I'll label "personality
magic" (hereafter referred to as PM). PM is simply your ability
to control yourself, your life and (to some degree) the people
and events around you. Once you master PM, almost everything in
your life seems much easier.




PART III - PERSONALITY MAGIC
     There is no such thing as "personality magic". It is just a
term I have chosen to use for the purposes of this article. It
allows me to offer you a basis of reference for some of the ideas
and concepts I am discussing. PM is almost a religion. Once you
understand it completely, it will change the way you look at
almost everything around you. As it is almost an entire way of
life, it would be impossible for me to explain every component to
you. I will try to hit on the key points and, hopefully, give you
enough basis for your own expansion. Every component of PM logic
is nearly as crucial at the next, so, these are not presented in
any order of importance.
     KNOW YOURSELF! - Sounds easy enough, doesn't it? In
     reality, few people are honest enough to know
     themselves. You must understand and admit to ALL of
     your strengths and weaknesses! Amazingly, people find
     it as difficult to admit they are good at something as
     to admit they're bad at something. Spend time alone,
     evaluating and assessing yourself. Go off into the
     woods or somewhere where you know you won't be
     bothered. You can start with a simple list of "My good
     points/My bad points". Then, look at specific events in
     your life. What have you done good? What are your
     successes? WHY did you do them good? How could you have
     done better? What about the bad things in your life?
     The failures? Why where they bad? What did you do to
     contribute to you failures? (I don't really care for
     the term "failure" - In my mind, you only ever fail
     when you quit) What could you have done to change the
     bad things in your life? A good rule to follow here
     (always) is, Change what you can and don't worry about
     what you can't change. (worry *never* solved a
     problem!) Don't blame other people for your problems,
     they can only effect you as much as you let them.
     Accept responsibility for your own life! (and remember
     the rule from part I - You can do *whatever* you
     want... as long as you're willing to accept the
     consequences!) You should not ever "finish" this self
     evaluation. Do this regularly and BE HONEST! The most
     important thing is, Be the person YOU want to be (not
     what your parents, your girlfriend, your wife, your
     school, society, or anyone else would like you to be).



     KNOW PEOPLE! - I can't stress the importance of this
     one enough. Most people don't know how to read other
     people. Learn to shut up! You cannot learn anything
     about someone by flapping your jaw. Open your eyes and
     ears any time you are dealing with other people. Listen
     to what they say. Listen to what they mean! Watch their
     body language. Everybody has "buttons". Things that
     make them happy, sad, angry, etc. You can control the
     conversation (and the person) by knowing their buttons.
     It could be something you say or something you do.
     Knowing what someone's buttons are *always* gives you
     the edge. You don't have to be a psychology major to
     understand the basic principles of dealing with people.
     Use the law of psychological reciprocity to your
     advantage! Simply put, it means that people are
     compelled to treat you in the same manner you treat
     them. (i.e. if you scream and yell at someone, they
     feel compelled to scream and yell back). You can
     frequently totally disarm an angry adversary by being
     nice to him (or at least appearing to be nice). Another
     point is to realize that people expect and like
     conformity (and resist change). Use this to your
     advantage! You can steer people either by appearing to
     conform to their expectations, or, if you want to
     attract their attention, by doing something completely
     unexpected. Silence speaks louder than words! When you
     act or speak, it allows others to read YOU. It allows
     them to learn what YOUR buttons are (and thereby, they
     can then control you!). Silence forces people to draw
     their own conclusions based on little or no
     information. Most often, left to their own devices,
     people will imagine the worst case scenario. Use this
     to your advantage. I've read a lot of Revenge files.
     They all talk about how to mess with someone
     physically. Physical pain ends rather quickly. Mess
     with someone's mind, and they may never be the same
     again!





     CONTROL - Once you have gained a clear understanding of
     yourself and others, you can put PM to work for you.
     There are hundreds (thousands) of groups that claim to
     give you power, in one form or another. Christian
     religions rely on the power of prayer. Satanic
     practices (satanic worship, witchcraft, ouija boards,
     etc.) give you power through ritual. In reality, all
     any of these things give you is a reason to believe in
     yourself. Lighting candles or praying or dancing naked
     around a fire are only a means of focusing the energy
     and capabilities within yourself. In essence, they are
     all either "real" or they are all "fake". Any ritual
     that helps you to focus your mental abilities to the
     extent that they will influence the world around you is
     "real" - as long as it actually accomplishes this
     focus! Anything that promises to give you "power" from
     an external source (i.e. God, Satan, Lighting a magic
     candle, etc.) is fraud. If you are in a burning
     building, and you pray for some god to save you, you
     will burn and die. Your mind and will are very powerful
     tools, but, they will not cause action on their own.
     You cannot *make* things happen through sheer will, you
     can only influence, the rest is up to you. You have a
     mind AND a body, use them both.

     PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER: What I'm talking about here
     pretty much boils down to Self-Confidence and Attitude.
     If you believe in yourself, everyone else will too.
     It's a proven fact that criminals look for easy
     targets, people who appear to lack confidence in
     themselves. If you *look* like a victim, you will be a
     victim (in some form or another). If your stature and
     attitude command respect, you will get respect. I'm not
     talking about macho, shooting off your mouth bullshit
     or "kicking someone's ass". Neither of those will gain
     you any respect (the latter will likely gain you a free
     tour of the local jail). Doing such things only serves
     to make you appear immature and lacking control. You
     needn't be a body builder to command respect. You need
     self-confidence, self-control, and attitude . Say
     what's on your mind, honestly and intelligently. If you
     disagree with someone, tell them! Then, tell them WHY
     you disagree. This person may be your boss or teacher
     or a cop. If you present your case logically, they will
     respect your honesty. They may not agree with you, but
     you will have earned a great deal of respect. Always
     know the facts. If you *ask* for a raise, you may or
     may not get it. Explain to your boss why you believe
     you are due a raise in a manner which allows no room
     for disagreement. I have found it best to ask as few
     questions as possible. If you ask someone a yes or no
     question, you are providing them the opportunity to
     make a decision. People hate to say "no". Don't make it
     easy for them! If you want a date, don't ask "Can I
     take you out for dinner some time?", Say "I was
     thinking we'd go out for Italian Friday night". You
     have to walk the border between arrogant and self-
     assured. If you push too hard, you push people away. if
     you don't push enough, they'll walk over YOU.

     CLOTHES - DRESS FOR SUCCESS! - It's been said that the
     clothes make the man. It's sad to think that we live in
     a world where a person is judged first on what he looks
     like. You won't likely do much to change that, but you
     CAN use it to your advantage. PM, charisma and attitude
     mean nothing if you don't get the chance to speak.
     Dress for the occasion! Wearing the wrong clothes at
     the wrong time might cost you an opportunity. An
     employer will not take you very seriously if you show
     up for an interview in torn jeans and a T-shirt. Then
     again, if you're involved in some "black market"
     dealings, a suit and tie might make you look like a
     Fed. First impressions count for a lot! Studies have
     proven that people make the biggest impact on others
     within the first 10 SECONDS of meeting them. Don't kid
     yourself into believing that a 17-year-old with long
     hair and blue jeans gets the same treatment from a cop
     as a businessman in a suit and tie.

     ADVICE & TAKING IT - Just a quick note on advice.
     Listen to everything people have to say. Even if you're
     sure they'll be wrong, they may offer some shred of
     information you don't have. Always consider the source.
     Don't take financial advice from a street bum! Anyone
     who claims to have answers should be able to apply them
     to their own life.


This "Personality Magic" isn't something you'll learn overnight.
Some people seem to have natural charisma, others need to work to
develop it. The world will always have leaders and followers. Be
one of the leaders! You can't accomplish much from the bottom of
the pile!

More than any insider secrets or any revenge tactics knowing
yourself, knowing how to read people, and understanding
psychology will be the keys to living your life in whatever
manner you choose. Don't waste your time on ignorant assholes!

PART IV - SOME TIPS (FINALLY!)

     I've been promising you some "white collar" tips and tricks.
All of this information is available to the public through
various sources. None of it, by itself, will have a major impact
on your life. Living as an outsider means using everything at
your disposal that will allow you to keep what is yours, get
ahead, or just have the freedom to be what you are. Some of them
may seem obvious (or dumb). If so, congratulations! You use
common sense more than most people!

  1) If you buy something and it fails its intended purpose,
     COMPLAIN! It's amazing how many people will sit back
     and do nothing! Bring it back. Write a letter. Whatever
     it takes.

  2) Traffic tickets - Don't argue with a Cop! A.) State
     your case. If he got laid last night, he might give you
     a break. If he's in a shitty mood, leave him alone -
     take the ticket quietly (you don't need to give him an
     excuse to dig any further). B.) Go to court! Insist
     that you are innocent (no matter what). Don't get
     ignorant or belligerent, just say "I'm sorry but the
     officer must have mistaken my car for another like it".
     C.) Even before that, try to talk to the cop that gave
     you the ticket beforehand. He is much more relaxed in
     the courtroom than he was on the street. If he agrees
     to not testify against you, the judge will drop the
     charges.



  3) Opportunity - Keep your eyes open for ANY opportunity.
     If you find a wallet with money in it, don't be a do-
     gooder, Keep it! If you feel the urge to try the "Well,
     what if it was MY wallet, I'd want someone to return
     it" mentality. Realize that if it WAS your wallet;    
     a) you wouldn't have been stupid enough to lose it, and 
     b) if someone DID find it, they'd most likely keep it.
     Opportunity presents itself in the most unlikely
     places. People make mistakes, machines fail to work
     properly, doors are left open (literally and
     figuratively)... If the opportunity is legal, jump on
     it (it will not likely present itself again). If it's
     illegal, weigh the risks, measure your guilt (if you're
     going to feel guilty later, DON'T DO IT!), then, IF you
     are willing to accept ALL possible consequences, go for
     it (if not, leave it alone).

  4) Job/School - If you're in school, you're at one of the
     easiest points in your life. Play the game enough to
     stay out of trouble. Get everything you can out of it
     (you never know how or when you'll be able to use it
     later). In the job market, try to find something that
     allows you some personal freedom. If you punch a time
     clock and are stuck in the same building 40 hours a
     week, you are losing valuable time. Driving a truck,
     multiple person nightshift positions, one person
     offices (and you ARE the only one) or working in
     outside sales are positions that allow you to mix
     personal tasks into your work day. (If you master the
     PM skills I discussed above, you can be an excellent
     salesman.)

  5) Dating/Marriage - As an outsider, there a few people
     who can understand and accept exactly what you are.
     Take the time to find someone who can. It's not worth
     the bullshit you'll go through if you try to make
     compromises. Never compromise what you believe.







  6) How to get info on anyone - Here's a list of 11 places
     Private investigators use to find info on people (you
     have access to this info as easily as they do)
            a) The registrar of voters - good
               source for non-published phone
               numbers
            b) DMV - vehicle info, driving record,
               ownership records
            c) Post Office - A $1 fee will give
               you current address, name of a box
               holder, forwarding address
            d) Property Records - real estate
               info. Liens, deeds, judgements...
            e) Tax assessor - info on real estate
               or personal property taxes
            f) Bureau of vital statistic - Birth,
               Death and Marriage records (A good
               starting point for setting up a new
               identity)
            g) Reverse phone directories/city
               directories - has listings by
               address and phone number as well as
               by name. Does not usually contain
               unlisted numbers.
            h) Associations - Doctors, Lawyers,
               Accountants... any professional is
               likely to belong to some
               association (where he gets his
               license)
            i) Schools - School records usually
               will not be released without a
               signed consent form, however, they
               are unlikely to question any legit
               looking form given them.
            j) Credit bureaus - If you own a
               business, subscribing to credit
               bureaus allows you access to a
               wealth of personal information
            k) Court records - Usually unavailable
               without signed consent forms.



  7) Shopping - This one is one of the easiest money savers
     in the world, but most people are afraid to try it.
     Haggle! Every time you buy something, ask for a
     discount! Every time! Obviously, K-Mart is less likely
     to give in than a mom and pop store. You don't have to
     be honest either. Say you can get the item cheaper
     somewhere else. Customers with cash are getting hard to
     find, salesmen will kiss your ass if you'll give them
     more money. Make them lick it too! Be a better salesman
     than he is. Make him "buy" your money with his product!

  8) Lying - Everybody lies when necessary. (Sorry I'm late
     boss. I had a flat.) If you *have* to, then do so as
     little as possible (and make it believable!). MOST of
     the time, lying just makes matters worse. Consider the
     consequences. If you are facing life in prison, you
     can't possibly make it worse. Then again, if you get
     busted cheating on your wife/girlfriend (a stupid thing
     to begin with - trust me, I know), lying to her will
     only make it worse (much worse). In a situation like
     that, admit your stupidity and take your beating
     (remember, before you did anything, you had already
     decided to accept ALL possible consequences, right?).

  9) The Phone Company - These guys are assholes. Watch your
     phone bill. One of their less slick tricks is to try to
     bill you for calls you didn't make. When some Phreak
     cranks up $1,000 of calls on a stolen card number and
     the phone company can't catch him, they try to spread
     the calls over several other customers' bills. One tip
     off is that these calls usually don't have a time or
     date on them. If you see these on your bills, bitch,
     yell and scream!

 10) Paying your bills - While we're on the subject of
     assholes (like the phone company), here's a tip on
     paying your bills. Pay them late! They all have a 10 or
     15 day grace period. None of them can do anything to
     your credit report until you're at least 30 days late.
     Pay them all at least 10 days after your due date.




 11) Dealing with people - This one is just so much common
     sense, I can't believe how many people don't see it.
     Put yourself on the other end of your negotiations
     ("Put yourself in their shoes"). If you're trying to
     sell something, thing of what might compel you to buy
     under the same circumstances. If you are buying
     something, realize that the salesman is there to make a
     profit, not to help you. If you need a favor, earn it.
     Don't expect someone to keep doing for you if you are
     unwilling to do anything for them.

 12) Taxes - Do you have a hobby? (computers maybe?) Turn
     your hobby into a business! The IRS has a tough time
     drawing a line between a business and a hobby. To
     qualify as a business the IRS stipulates that you must
     show intent to make a profit. The key word is "intent".
     You do not actually have to make a profit! Your
     accountant can help you with the details. Once your
     hobby is a business, you open up a number of deductible
     expenses (car, computer, phone bills...)

 13) ATM Machines - I've read too many "great ATM ripoff"
     files. These things are hardly worth the risk. Even if
     you run into a "lucky opportunity" and the machine
     starts spitting money, DON'T KEEP IT! Knowingly
     overdrawing an account through an ATM is bank fraud - a
     FEDERAL crime that can get you 30 years in the big
     house.





<keep going... it ain't over yet>










PART V - I'M OUTTA HERE

     I've given you enough to swallow in one sitting. A lot of
this information is difficult to fully understand immediately.
Think about it. Read it again. Then, think about it some more and
read it again. I'm not teaching you how to be a criminal. I'm
sharing with you some of the methods *I've* used to survive in a
world where the majority is not like me. I think different. I act
different. I AM different. To most people, I'm "weird". That
doesn't make me bad or wrong, just different. I don't expect
everyone to agree with me or like me. I don't care what they
think or feel, as long as they leave me alone to be what I am.
     Thanks to all the people who provided feedback (good and
bad) on Part I. Most people where supportive, only one of you
thought I was a complete asshole. More than anyone, it was the
guy who told me I was an asshole that made me think the most
about whether I was right or not. Thanks to the beautiful dark
haired lady that helped push me to finish this by being
supportive, offering her advice and criticisms, and for accepting
me as I am.
     I'm wide open to comments, suggestions, support and
criticisms at all time. Feel free to speak your mind. (If I
disagree, I'll jump all over you!). I'm not sure where I want to
go with Part III. If you have any ideas, or certain areas you'd
like to see covered, E-mail me at one of the boards listed at the
beginning.

                     *** MIDNIGHT RIDER ***
