NEWS RELEASE
 
AN INDO-EUROPEAN PLANT TEACHER
 
. . . a note from underground
 
by "Gracie and Zarkov"
 
Number 10
 
_INTRODUCTION_
 
Encounters with entities who teach or guide are a characteristic feature of
hallucinogenic ayahuasca trances. For discussion purposes, we have granted
ontological status to these entities without regard for the epistemological
or metaphysical implications of that status.
 
We have been interested in these phenomena for several years, but the South
American vine, _Banisteriopsis caapi_, which is the basis for ayahuasca, is
not readily available in North America. The DMT-containing admixture plants,
_Psychotria viridis_, and _Diplopteris cabrarana_, which produce the vivid
hallucinations, are even harder to obtain. Therefore, we have been
investigating combinations of synthetic DMT with various beta-carboline
containing plants, not only _B. caapi_, but also _Passiflora incarnata_ and
Peganum harmala_.
 
_PEGANUM HARMALA_
 
_P. harmala_, or Syrian Rue, is the plant from which harmine was first
isolated, as well as a source of harmaline and tetrahydroharmine. Total
beta-Carboline content runs almost 4% by weight in the seeds of Syrian Rue.
These alkaloids occur in roughly the same proportions as in _B. caapi_. Ten
grams of Syrian Rue seeds provide about 400mg of total beta-Carbolines, about
that amount in a typical dose of ayahuasca.
 
Syrian Rue grows in semi-arid conditions. It originated in Central Asia, and
is held in high esteem throughout Asia Minor as a medicinal, aphrodisiac and
dye plant. There is no solid historical evidence of ritual or religious use.
It is sometimes known as "ruin weed" since it often grows on the tells
covering the ruins of ancient cities in the Near East. It now grows wild in
Eurasia and has recently been spread to Texas, Nevada, New Mexico and
Southern California. Dye quality seeds are available from several West Coast
seed services for about $50.00 per pound.
 



_PREPARATION_
We prepared our hallucinogenic brew in a manner similar to that used to
prepare ayahuasca. Fifty grams of seeds were finely ground in a spice mill.
The powdered seeds were added to 4 quarts of water and boiled in a slow
cooker overnight. The resulting liquid was poured off and saved, and 4 quarts
of fresh water were added to the residue. This second wash was also boiled
for 12 hours. Both washes had a noticeable yellow color, indicating the
possible presence of harmine. Both washes were strained while hot though a
cloth coffee filter and then reduced to a final volume of 500ml. Synthetic
N,N-DMT-HCl was boiled in during the final reduction (not boiling in the DMT
adversely affects the brew's potency).

_THE HIGH_
 
We drank the brew on empty stomachs. First effects were noticed in about five
minutes. Physical side effects include tingling extremities, slight tremor,
lassitude and very slight nausea.  The mental effects of the come-on are
similar to the initial effects of smoked DMT but are milder and in slow
motion. The anti-depressant effects of the beta-Carbolines are quite
striking; a strange calm elation is felt.
 
The DMT-like effects peak in about 25-30 minutes with strong visual
disturbances. We were in a darkened room and the closed-eye geometric
patterns were very vivid. We felt a "presence" in these patterns which we
could bring into direct contact by a combination of repeated nonsense
babbling (which turned into glossolalia) and direct address to the "entity,"
e.g. "Who are you?" "Show yourself!" "Do you want to talk?" etc.
 
_THE PLANT TEACHER_
 
On both occasions, we contacted a "teacher" who identified himself with the
Syrian Rue plant. During our discussions with him (which were out loud;
subvocalizing was ineffective) the teacher showed us visions, answered
questions and provided specific health, emotional and psychological advice.
The "voice in the head" phenomenon was not as strongly constituted as on high
dose mushrooms. However, the vividness, clarity and understandability of the
visionary illustrations which often accompanied the conversations were
striking. Intense feelings (which shifted with the visions), changes in tone
of voice and manner of speaking, including glossolalia (as recorded on tape)
and strong contact highs were additional phenomena noted. The plant teacher
had a definite personality which was strongly male, very friendly, humorous,
with an interest in story-telling bordering on the garrulous.
 
We have independent confirmation of contact phenomena by an associate who
tried the same combination.
 







_THE VISIONS_
 
Representative visions and raps included:
 
--Plant diagrams and information on watering, plant diseases and placement of
the Syrian Rue plant in our garden.
 
--A diagram of a human heart, showing the auricular node and the neurology of
the heartbeat.
 
--Art and artifacts from the Old European civilization C. 10,000 BC, e.g.,
Catal Huyuk; including pottery and statuary.
 
--A vision of the Goddess, holding the plant teacher and the human contactee
intertwined in Her hands.
 
--An amazingly vivid and intense "movie" of the last scene from Robert A.
Heinlein's _Starship Troopers_, showing the destruction of an insect planet
by human warriors.
 
--The ruins of Persepolis, then, upon request, Persepolis in its original
polychrome, sunlit splendor.
 
--A vision of the plant teacher as a Mongol warlord, in golden armor, astride
an armored and caparisoned woolly mammoth.
 
--A vision of Gracie's mother at Gracie's age, from the inside, that is,
Gracie experienced her mother from her mother's point of view.
 
--Various pieces of psychological and relationship advice, including insights
into both our childhoods.
The visions faded about three hours after ingestion with the presence slowly
fading in the fourth hour. The total trip lasts about 6 hours.





_DOSAGE_
 
This brew can be very intense and we could not recommend it to anyone who has
not had significant experience with similar visionary states such as high
dose mushrooms (5gm+, smoked DMT (40mg+) or mescaline (500mg+). Individual
sensitivity to the beta-Carboline/DMT combination varies greatly, so we
recommend that one "sneak-up" on the effects. While our nominal dose would
be 10 grams of seeds with 40 mg of DMT, 30 mg of DMT will definitely allow
for contact. Five grams of seeds with 20 mg of DMT seems to be the threshold
dose. The intensity of the visual effects seems most dependent upon the
dosage of DMT. The length of the effects and the depth of the contact seem
most dependent upon the dose of Syrian Rue. Our personal preference is 7
grams of seeds with 30 mg of DMT, with a booster dose of 5 grams Rue and 20
mg DMT after one hour.
 
 
_WARNING_
 
THE INTERACTION OF CERTAIN FOODS AND DRUGS WITH THE MAO INHIBITION BROUGHT ON
BY BETA-CARBOLINES CAN BE FATAL!! The following substances _must not_ be
ingested within 48 hours before and after taking the brew:
 
--All amphetamines or related compounds , such as MDA, MDMA,
phenylpropanolamine, ephedrine, etc. [add "smart drugs" to this category.]
 
--Any foods containing tyramine, or where enzymatic processes have been used:
e.g., yoghurt, sour cream, aged cheeses, wines, especially port or Chianti,
beer, fermented sausages (pepperoni), soy sauce, etc.
-- Certain other foods, including: shellfish, bananas, liver, avocados, broad
beans, chocolate, coffee and others.
 
This list is not all-inclusive. Please do further research before attempting
to experiment! The dangerous interaction usually precipitates a hypertensive
crisis and certain people are especially sensitive to the effects,
particularly those with heart abnormalities or high blood pressure. We
ourselves have had a few close calls while investigating the beta-Carbolines.
 
Good physical health and the advice of a "hip" physician are helpful,
nevertheless, exercise caution if you become interested in these
combinations.


 
 
_COMPARISON WITH AYAHUASCA_
 
While our direct experience with _B. caapi_ and DMT admixtures is very
limited, we have these preliminary comments. The Syrian Rue experience is
less heavy, and the entity more casual, garrulous and intimate. The _caapi_
entity seems more formal, more experienced with human contact, especially in
health and psychology, and seems to be a more powerful teacher.
 
_CHEMICAL ANALYSIS_  The chemical analysis of ayahuasca can be found in
Stafford, _Psychedelics Encyclopedia_, and Schultes and Hoffman, _The Botany
and Chemistry of Hallucinogens_. A more detailed analysis of the brew is in
McKenna, et. al., _Journal of Ethnopharmacology_, 10 (1984), 195-223.
_CONCLUSION_
 
A full account of our various experiments with beta-Carbolines and DMT will
be in our forthcoming book: _Notes from Underground: Psychedelic Perspectives
for the Next Millennium_, which will be published by High Frontiers Press
sometime early in 1992.
 
We'd like to acknowledge the information and moral support provided by
Dennis, Terence and Kat McKenna, which made it possible for us to structure
the experiments so as to make contact on our first attempt.
 
Finally, the plant teacher said that it would like to communicate with any
human willing to take the brew.
     Stay High and Stay Free! 


 Copyright 1986 by Gracie and Zarkov productions.  We believe that in a truly
free society the price of packaged information would be driven down to the
cost of reproduction and transmission. We, therefore, give blanket permission
and encourage photocopy, quotation, reprint or entry into a database of all
or part of our articles provided that the copier or quoter does not take
credit for our statements!

