                            SECTION I

                        ORDER OF PRIORITY 
                         IN AN EMERGENCY

In EVERY emergency situation, there is a logical order to be
followed. First, it is important to carefully assess the scene of
an emergency BEFORE any further steps are taken. The purpose of
this assessment is to assure it is safe to provide first aid care.
For example, an unconscious victim might be lying on a live power
line. If a rescuer were to touch the victim before the power could
be shut off, the rescuer would become a victim as well! Always be
sure it is safe before you attempt to help a victim!

Once you determine it is safe for you to help a victim, you should
immediately determine if the victim is threatened by life
threatening conditions. 

Begin by checking to see if the victim is responsive. If the victim
is prone, kneel and ask, " ARE YOU OK?" If there is no response,
you must immediately do a PRIMARY SURVEY which is intended to
identify life-threatening conditions! 

First, if there are bystanders on the scene, summon someone to your
side to provide assistance.   

If the victim is on his stomach, first place the victim's arm
closest to you above his head. Then turn him over by placing one
hand on the victim's hip and the other hand at the victim's
shoulder. Turn the body in a smooth, even straight line so as to
not cause further injury in the event of existing spinal cord
injury. 

With the victim now on his back, OPEN THE VICTIM'S AIRWAY by
placing the heel of your hand on the victim's forehead and the tips
of your fingers under the bony part of the jaw.

Push down on the forehead while lifting up the chin until the jaw
is pointing straight up. Now place your ear over the victim's mouth
and LOOK, LISTEN & FEEL for breathing for 3 to 5 seconds. LOOK at
the chest to see if it is rising, LISTEN for sounds of breathing
and FEEL for air coming from the victim.

If the victim is not breathing, RESCUE BREATHING is required
immediately!                         
  
*****************************************************************
                                        IMPORTANT

        WHILE THIS TUTORIAL IDENTIFIES LIFE THREATENING CONDITIONS
            REQUIRING RESCUE BREATHING OR CPR, THESE SKILLS REQUIRE
              INTENSIVE CLASSROOM SKILL DEVELOPMENT AND PRACTICE 
                 AND CANNOT BE EFFECTIVELY PRESENTED OR TAUGHT  
                         IN THIS TUTORIAL. THE AUTHOR
                         STRONGLY ENCOURAGES EVERYONE
                              TO ENROLL IN A CPR
                                    COURSE
*****************************************************************
Rescue breathing will provide vital oxygen to a victim who cannot
breath on their own. After giving a victim two breaths, the pulse
is checked at the Carotid Artery to ascertain if the victim has a
heartbeat. This artery is located on the side of the neck and is
located by first positioning the fingers on the victim's Adam's
Apple, then sliding the fingers down into the soft groove on the
side of the neck. The pulse is checked for 5 to 10 seconds.

If the victim has a heartbeat, but is not breathing, RESCUE
BREATHING is required. If the victim is NOT breathing AND does not
have a HEARTBEAT, CPR is required without delay!

These initial steps of checking the AIRWAY, BREATHING and
CIRCULATION (pulse), together with a check for major BLEEDING,
constitute THE PRIMARY SURVEY, which looks for life-threatening
conditions!

AFTER the PRIMARY SURVEY is completed, and life threatening
conditions identified, a bystander should be dispatched to call
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (911 or other emergency number in your
community) while a suitably-trained rescuer begins appropriate
emergency treatment!

In every instance where first aid is to be provided, it is
important to always ask a conscious victim for permission to help
them. If a victim is unconscious, it is presumed they have provided
consent for you to assist them.


                                       SECTION II

                               OBSTRUCTIONS IN THE AIRWAY

[NOTE: Emergency treatment of airway obstructions is taught as part
of CPR training and only through classroom practice can the
necessary skills be mastered. The mechanics of handling airway
obstructions are presented in this tutorial for background insight
only]
                


If an individual is choking - but can speak or cough forcibly-there
is an exchange of air (although it might be diminished) and you
should encourage the victim to continue coughing while you just
stand by! On the other hand, if a victim is choking, but CANNOT
speak or cough, an airway obstruction exists which must be treated
immediately!

The treatment for an obstructed airway in a conscious victim
involves the HEIMLICH MANEUVER which is performed as follows:

       STAND BEHIND THE VICTIM

       WRAP YOUR ARMS AROUND THE VICTIM'S WAIST

       MAKE A FIST WITH ONE HAND AND PLACE THE THUMB SIDE OF THE  
       FIST AGAINST THE VICTIM'S ABDOMEN, JUST ABOVE THE NAVEL AND 
       WELL BELOW THE LOWER TIP OF THE BREASTBONE

       GRASP YOUR FIST WITH YOUR OTHER HAND

       WITH ELBOWS OUT, PRESS YOUR FIST INTO THE VICTIM'S ABDOMEN
       WITH QUICK, UPWARD THRUSTS

       EACH THRUST IS A DISTINCT, SEPARATE ATTEMPT TO DISLODGE THE 
       FOREIGN OBJECT

       REPEAT THRUSTS UNTIL FOREIGN OBJECT IS CLEARED OR VICTIM   
       BECOMES UNCONSCIOUS

      Emergency treatment of airway obstructions in an unconscious 
      victim is taught in CPR classes.

       
       
      
                                       SECTION III
                                      HEART ATTACK

Heart attacks are among the leading cause of death in the United
States. A heart attack happens when one or more of the blood
vessels that supply blood to the heart become blocked. When this
occurs, cells in the heart begin to die when they cannot get blood
for vital nourishment. If a large part of the heart is deprived of
blood, the heart stops beating and the victim suffers CARDIAC
ARREST!

When a victim's heart stops beating, they require CARDIOPULMONARY
RESUSCITATION (CPR) which provides vital oxygen through rescue
breathing and which maintains circulation through chest
compressions.

PROPER TRAINING IS REQUIRED TO PERFORM CPR, HOWEVER ANY HEART
ATTACK CAN LEAD TO CARDIAC ARREST AND IT IS THEREFORE VITAL FOR
FIRST AIDERS TO BE ABLE TO RECOGNIZE THE EARLY WARNING SIGNS OF A
HEART ATTACK SO THE VICTIM CAN RECEIVE PROMPT PROFESSIONAL
ATTENTION!

A heart attack victim whose heart is still beating has a much
better chance of survival than a victim whose heart has stopped!
Most heart attack victims who die succumb within 2 hours after
having their heart attack. Many of these victims could be saved if
bystanders recognize the symptoms of a heart attack and get the
victim to a hospital quickly! Indeed, many victims of heart attacks
think they are experiencing HEARTBURN or other minor discomfort
when in fact their life is in jeopardy!

           

The most significant sign of a heart attack is chest pain. The
victim may describe it as pressure, a feeling of tightness in the
chest, aching, crushing, fullness or tightness, constricting or
heavy pain. The pain may be located in the center of the chest
although it is not uncommon for the pain to radiate to one or both
shoulders or arms or to the neck, jaw or back.

In addition to pain, victims may experience sweating, nausea or
shortness of breath. Many victims deny they may be having a heart
attack. Others may have their condition worsened by fear of dying.
With all victims of heart attacks - and with all victims receiving
first aid for any condition - it is important for the rescuer to
constantly reassure the victim and keep them as calm and relaxed as
possible.

The psychological value of reassurance is as important in first aid
as any treatments!

FIRST AID FOR A HEART ATTACK

       1. Recognize the signs & symptoms of a heart attack

       2. Comfort & reassure the victim

       3. Have the victim stop whatever they were doing and sit or
         lie in a comfortable position

       4. Summon emergency medical help quickly

       5. If the victim become unconscious, be prepared to perform 
          CPR [IF YOU ARE TRAINED]


All of us can reduce the risk of heart attack by controlling high
blood pressure, limiting cholesterol in the diet, watching weight,
exercising,giving up smoking and minimizing stress.   


                                       SECTION IV
                                        BLEEDING

Major bleeding may be a life-threatening condition requiring
immediate attention. Bleeding may be external or internal. Bleeding
may be from an ARTERY, a major blood vessel which carries
oxygen-rich blood from the heart throughout the body. It may be
from a VEIN, which carries blood back to the heart to be oxygenated
or bleeding may be from a CAPILLARY, the smallest of our body's
blood vessels.

ARTERIAL bleeding is characterized by spurts with each beat of the
heart, is bright red in color (although blood darkens when it meets
the air) and is usually severe and hard to control. ARTERIAL
bleeding requires immediate attention!

VENUS bleeding is characterized by a steady flow and the blood is
dark, almost maroon in shade. Venus bleeding is easier to control
than Arterial bleeding.

CAPILLARY bleeding is usually slow, oozing in nature and this type
of bleeding usually has a higher risk of infection than other types
of bleeding.




                                 

FIRST AID FOR BLEEDING IS INTENDED TO:

                     l. STOP THE BLEEDING

                     2. PREVENT INFECTION

                     3. PREVENT SHOCK


HOW TO CONTROL BLEEDING:

       1. APPLY DIRECT PRESSURE ON THE WOUND. USE A DRESSING, IF  
          AVAILABLE. IF A DRESSING IS NOT AVAILABLE, USE A RAG,   
          TOWEL, PIECE OF CLOTHING OR YOUR HAND ALONE. 

          ONCE PRESSURE IS APPLIED, KEEP IT IN PLACE. IF DRESSINGS 
          BECOME SOAKED WITH BLOOD, APPLY NEW DRESSINGS OVER THE  
          OLD DRESSINGS. THE LESS A BLEEDING WOUND IS DISTURBED,
          THE EASIER IT WILL BE TO STOP THE BLEEDING!

       2. IF BLEEDING CONTINUES, AND YOU DO NOT SUSPECT A FRACTURE, 
          ELEVATE THE WOUND ABOVE THE LEVEL OF THE HEART AND      
          CONTINUE TO APPLY DIRECT PRESSURE.

       3. IF THE BLEEDING STILL CANNOT BE CONTROLLED, THE NEXT STEP 
          IS TO APPLY PRESSURE AT A PRESSURE POINT. FOR WOUNDS OF 
          THE ARMS OR HANDS, PRESSURE POINTS ARE LOCATED 
          ON THE INSIDE OF THE WRIST ( RADIAL ARTERY-WHERE A PULSE 
          IS CHECKED) OR ON THE INSIDE OF THE UPPER ARM (BRACHIAL 
          ARTERY). FOR WOUNDS OF THE LEGS, THE PRESSURE POINT IS AT 
          THE CREASE IN THE GROIN (FEMORAL ARTERY). STEPS 1 AND 2 
          SHOULD BE CONTINUED WITH USE OF THE PRESSURE POINTS.

       4. THE FINAL STEP TO CONTROL BLEEDING IS TO APPLY A        
          PRESSURE BANDAGE OVER THE WOUND. NOTE THE 
          DISTINCTION BETWEEN A DRESSING AND A BANDAGE. A DRESSING 
          MAY BE A GAUZE SQUARE APPLIED  DIRECTLY TO A WOUND, WHILE
          A BANDAGE, SUCH AS ROLL GAUZE, IS USED TO HOLD A DRESSING 
          IN PLACE. PRESSURE SHOULD BE USED IN APPLYING THE       
          BANDAGE. AFTER THE BANDAGE IS IN PLACE, IT 
          IS IMPORTANT TO CHECK THE PULSE TO MAKE SURE CIRCULATION 
          IS NOT INTERRUPTED.  

          A SLOW PULSE RATE, OR BLUISH FINGERTIPS OR TOES, SIGNAL 
          A BANDAGE MAY BE IMPEDING CIRCULATION.     

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF INTERNAL BLEEDING ARE:

       * BRUISED,SWOLLEN, TENDER OR RIGID ABDOMEN

       * BRUISES ON CHEST OR SIGNS OF FRACTURED RIBS

       * BLOOD IN VOMIT

       * WOUNDS THAT HAVE PENETRATED THE CHEST OR ABDOMEN

       * BLEEDING FROM THE RECTUM OR VAGINA



                                    

       * FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS

       * ABNORMAL PULSE AND DIFFICULTY BREATHING

       * COOL, MOIST SKIN

FIRST AID IN THE FIELD FOR INTERNAL BLEEDING IS LIMITED. IF THE
INJURY APPEARS TO BE A SIMPLE BRUISE,APPLY COLD PACKS TO SLOW
BLEEDING, RELIEVE PAIN AND REDUCE SWELLING. IF YOU SUSPECT MORE
SEVERE INTERNAL BLEEDING, CAREFULLY MONITOR THE PATIENT AND BE
PREPARED TO ADMINISTER CPR IF REQUIRED (AND YOU ARE TRAINED TO
DO
SO). YOU SHOULD ALSO REASSURE THE VICTIM, CONTROL EXTERNAL
BLEEDING,CARE FOR SHOCK (COVERED IN NEXT SECTION), LOOSEN
TIGHT-FITTING CLOTHING AND PLACE VICTIM ON SIDE SO FLUIDS
CAN DRAIN FROM THE MOUTH. 


                                        SECTION V
                                          SHOCK

SHOCK IS COMMON WITH MANY INJURIES, REGARDLESS OF THEIR SEVERITY.
THE FIRST HOUR AFTER AN INJURY IS MOST IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT IS
DURING THIS PERIOD THAT SYMPTOMS OF SHOCK APPEAR. IF SHOCK IS NOT
TREATED, IT CAN PROGRESS TO CAUSE DEATH! 

SHOCK IS FAILURE OF THE CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM TO KEEP ADEQUATE
BLOOD CIRCULATING TO THE VITAL ORGANS OF THE BODY, NAMELY THE
HEART, LUNGS AND BRAIN.

ANY TYPE OF INJURY CAN CAUSE SHOCK.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF SHOCK INCLUDE: CONFUSED BEHAVIOR, VERY
FAST
OR VERY SLOW PULSE RATE, VERY FAST OR VERY SLOW BREATHING,
TREMBLING AND WEAKNESS IN THE ARMS OR LEGS, COOL AND MOIST SKIN,
PALE OR BLUISH SKIN, LIPS AND FINGERNAILS AND ENLARGED PUPILS.

TREATMENT FOR SHOCK:


A GOOD RULE TO FOLLOW IS TO ANTICIPATE THAT SHOCK WILL FOLLOW AN
INJURY AND TAKE MEASURES TO PREVENT IT BEFORE IT HAPPENS!

Putting a victim in a lying-down position improves circulation. If
the victim is not suspected of having head or neck injuries, or leg
fractures, elevate the legs. If you suspect head or neck
injuries, keep the victim lying flat. If the victim vomits, turn on
their side. If victim is experiencing trouble breathing, place them
in a semi-reclining position. Maintain the victim's body
teperature, but do not overheat.


                                       SECTION VI
                                          BURNS

The severity of a burn depends upon its size, depth and location.
Burns are most severe when located on the face, neck, hands, feet
and genitals; when they are spread over large parts of the body ort
when they are combined with other injuries.

                                   

Burns result in pain, infection and shock. They are most serious
when the victims are very young or very old. 

First degree burns are the least severe. They are characterized by
redness or discoloration, mild swelling and pain. Overexposure to
the sun is a common cause of first degree burns.

Second degree burns are more serious. They are deeper than first
degree burns, look red or mottled and have blisters. They may also
involve loss of fluids through the damaged skin. Second degree
burns are usually the most painful because nerve ending are usually
intact, despite severe tissue damage.

Third degree burns are the deepest. They may look white or charred,
extend through all skin layers. Victims of third degree burns may
have severe pain -- or no pain at all if the nerve endings are
destroyed.

FIRST AID FOR BURNS;

FIRST DEGREE         FLUSH WITH COOL RUNNING WATER,APPLY MOIST    
                     DRESSINGS & BANDAGE LOOSELY

SECOND DEGREE        APPLY DRY DRESSINGS AND BANDAGE LOOSELY. DO  
                     NOT USE WATER AS IT MAY INCREASE 
                     RISK OF SHOCK

THIRD DEGREE         SAME TREATMENT AS SECOND DEGREE

ALL VICTIMS OF SERIOUS BURNS SHOULD SEEK PROFESSIONAL HELP
QUICKLY1

Burns may also be caused by chemicals. In these cases, it is
important to remove clothing on which chemicals have spilled and
flush the affected area with copious amounts of water for 15 to 30
minutes.


                                       SECTION VII
                                      EYE INJURIES

Be extremely careful and gentle when treating eye injuries.
Floating objects in the eye which can be visualized may be flushed
from the eye with water. If the object cannot be removed in this
manner, the victim should seek medical attention.

Never attempt to remove objects imbedded in the eye! First Aid care
for these injuries consists of bandaging BOTH eyes and seeking
professional care promptly! An inverted paper cup covered with a
bandage is appropriate for serious eye injuries while the victim is
transported to the hospital.

For chemical burns of the eye, wash the eye with copious amounts of
water for 15 to 30 minutes. Then wrap a bandage around both eyes
and seek professional help.

Eyes are delicate and sight is precious! Prompt professional
attention to eye injuries is required to preserve sight!


                                      SECTION VIII
                                      NOSE INJURIES

Severe nosebleed can be most frightening. It can also lead to shock
if enough blood is lost! Many cases of nosebleed can be controlled
simply by having the victim sit down, pinch the nostrils shut
and lean forward (to prevent blood from running into the throat).
Once the bleeding has been stopped, talking, walking and blowing
the nose may disturn blood clots and allow the bleeding to resume.

If it is suspected that the victim has suffered head, neck or back
injuries DO NOT attempt to control the blood flow as they may cause
increased pressure on injured tissue. All uncontrolled nosebleeds
require prompt medical attention!


                                       SECTION IX
                                      ANIMAL BITES

Animal bites carry a high risk of infection, therefore require
professional attention promptly.Infection may develop hours, or
days, after an animal bite. Signs and symptoms of infection
are pain & tenderness at the wound site, redness, heat, swelling,
pus at the wound site red streaks in the skin around the wound and
possible swollen glands closest to the wound.

First aid care for animal bites includes washing the wound well
with soap and water, if there is no heavy bleeding. Then cover the
wound and seek professional attention. A serious wound should be
cleaned only by trained medical personnel.



                                        SECTION X
                                      INSECT BITES

Insect bites and stings can be life-threatening to people with
severe allergy to the insect's venom!

Signs and symptoms of allergic reaction include pain, swelling of
the throat, redness or discoloration at the site of the bite,
itching, hives, decreased consciousness and difficult or noisy
breathing.

First aid calls for being alert for signs of allergic reaction or
shock and seeking medical attention as quickly as possible for
these victims!

If a stinger remains in the victim, you may try to remove it
carefully with a tweezers or by scraping with the edge of a credit
card. Be careful not to squeeze the stinger as this will inject
more venom.

Once a stinger has been removed, the would should be washed well
with soap and water. Cold compresses will help relieve pain and
swelling. The stung area should be kept lower than the heart to
slow circulation of the venom.

REMEMBER, IN ALL CASES OF INSECT BITES, WATCH FOR SIGNS OF ALLERGIC
REACTION AND IF THEY APPEAR, SEEK PROFESSIONAL MEDICAL ATTENTION
WITHOUT DELAY!


              

                                       SECTION XI
                        FRACTURES,SPRAINS,STRAINS & DISLOCATIONS

Fractures, sprains, strains and dislocations may be hard for the
lay person to tell apart. For this reason, first aid treatment of
any of these conditions is handled as though the injury was a
fracture.

Signs and symptoms of the above conditions may include a "grating"
sensation of bones rubbing together, pain, tenderrness, swelling,
bruising and an inability to move the injured part.

First Aid for any of these conditions consists of:

       * Control bleeding, if present.
       * Care for shock.
       * Splint affected area to prevent further movement, but do 
         so only if possible without causing further pain to      
         victim.
       * Cold packs may help reduce pain and swelling.
       

Victims with traumatic injuries, such as those caused by automobile
accidents, falls etc. should not be moved except by trained rescue
workers. Head, neck and back injuries are serious and require
special care for movement and transport of victims with these
conditions. In exceptional circumstances, such as when a victim is
at risk of further injury unless moved, the victim's head
and neck should be stabilized and the body moved with minimal
flexing of the head, neck or spinal cord.

All victims with fractures,dislocations, sprains and strains
require professional medical attention.


                                           XII
                                        POISONING

Over a million cases of poisoning occur in the United States each
year, most involving young children. Obviously, then, PREVENTION of
poisoning should be the concern of every parent with young
children. ALL substances likely to cause poinsoning should be kept
away from inquiring youngsters!

Since various poisons cause different symptoms, and because
treatments vary depending upon the substance injested, the first
step in the event of poisoning is to call the local POISON CONTROL
CENTER! DO NOT WAIT FOR SYMPTOMS TO OCCUR! IDENTIFY THE NATURE
OF
THE POISON AND RECEIVE SPECIFIC CARE INSTRUCTIONS FROM THE
PROFESSIONAL STAFF AT THE CENTER!

All poisoning victims need to be monitored carefully for signs of
shock or impaired consciousness.

Every household should keep ACTIVATED CHARCOAL & SYRUP OF IPECAC on
hand for possible use in poisoning emergencies, however they should
not be administered unless instructed by the Poison Control Center
staff.



                                          XIII
                                  DIABETIC EMERGENCIES

Sugar is required in the body for nourishment. Insulin is a hormone
that helps the body use the sugar. When the body does not produce
enough Insulin, body cells do not get the needed nourishment
and diabetes results. People with this condition take Insulin to
keep their diabetes under control.

Diabetics are subject to two very different types of emergencies:

       1. INSULIN REACTION (OR INSULIN SHOCK)

              This condition occurs when there is TOO MUCH INSULIN 
              in the body. This condition rapidly reduces the level 
              of sugar in the blood and brain cells suffer.

              Insulin reaction can be caused by taking too much   
              medication, by failing to eat, by heavy exercise and 
              by emotional factors.

              SIGNS & SYMPTOMS

              Fast breathing, fast pulse, dizziness, weakness,
              change in the level of consciousness,vision
              difficulties, sweating, headache, numb hands or feet,
              and hunger.
              

       2. DIABETIC COMA

              This condition occurs when there is TOO MUCH SUGAR  
              and too little INSULIN in the blood and body cells do 
              not get enough nourishment.

              Diabetic coma can be caused by eating too much sugar, 
              by not taking prescribed medications, by stress and 
              by infection.

              SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS

              Diabetic coma develops more slowly than Insulin     
              shock, sometimes over a period of days. Signs and   
              symptoms include drowsiness, confusion,deep and fast 
              breathing, thirst, dehydration, fever, a change in  
              the level of consciousness and a peculiar sweet or  
              fruity-smelling breath.

FIRST AID FOR INSULIN REACTION AND DIABETIC COMA

Looking for the signs and symptoms listed above will help to
distinguish the two diabetic emergencies. In addition, if the
patient is conscious, you can ask two very important questions
which will help determine the nature of the problem:
1. ASK "HAVE YOU EATEN TODAY?"
       Someone who has eaten,but has not taken prescribed         
       medication may be in a diabetic coma.
2. ASK "HAVE YOU TAKEN YOUR MEDICATION TODAY?"
       Someone who has not eaten, but did not take their medication 
       may be having an Insulin reaction.
                                


DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN THE TWO TYPES OF DIABETIC EMERGENCIES
CAN BE
DIFFICULT.
(Always look for an identifying bracelet which may reveal a
person's condition)

OF THE TWO CONDITIONS, INSULIN SHOCK IS A TRUE EMERGENCY WHICH
REQUIRES PROMPT ACTION!

A PERSON IN INSULIN SHOCK NEEDS SUGAR, QUICKLY! IF THE PERSON IS
CONSCIOUS, GIVE SUGAR IN ANY FORM: CANDY, FRUIT JUICE OR A SOFT
DRINK!

SUGAR GIVEN TO A PERSON IN INSULIN SHOCK CAN BE LIFE-SAVING! IF THE
PERSON IS SUFFERING FROM DIABETIC COMA, THE SUGAR WILL NOT CAUSE
THEM FURTHER HARM.

Monitor victims carefully. Seek professional help. 



                                       SECTION XIV
                                         STROKE


Stroke occurs when the blood flow to the brain is interrupted long
enough to cause damage.

This may be caused by a clot formed in an artery in the brain or
carried to the brain in the bloodstream, a ruptured artery in the
brain or by compression of an artery in the brain, as found
with brain tumors.

First aid consists primarily of recognizing signs and symptoms and
seeking professional attention.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF A STROKE INCLUDE:

              * WEAKNESS AND NUMBNESS OF THE FACE, ARM,
                OR LEG, OFTEN ON ONE SIDE OF THE BODY ONLY.

              * DIZZINESS

              * CONFUSION

              * HEADACHE

              * RINGING IN THE EARS

              * A CHANGE OF MOOD

              * DIFFICULTY SPEAKING

              * UNCONSCIOUSNESS

              * PUPILS OF UNEVEN SIZE

              * DIFFICULTY IN BREATHING & SWALLOWING

              * LOSS OF BOWEL AND BLADDER CONTROL


                            

IF YOU SUSPECT A PERSON IS HAVING A STROKE, HAVE THEM STOP
WHATEVER
THEY ARE DOING AND REST.                                          
                                                                 
PROMPTLY OBTAIN PROFESSIONAL HELP. REASSURE THE VICTIM AND KEEP
THEM COMFORTABLE. DO NOT GIVE ANYTHING BY  MOUTH. IF THE VICTIM
VOMITS, ALLOW FOR FLUIDS TO DRAIN FROM THE MOUTH. OBSERVE
CAREFULLY
WHILE AWAITING PROFESSIONAL HELP AND, IF TRAINED TO DO SO,
MONITOR
THE AIRWAY, BREATHING AND CIRCULATION  AND BE PREPARED TO
ADMINISTER RESCUE BREATHING OR CPR, IF REQUIRED!


                                       SECTION XV
                                        SEIZURES

Seizures are fairly common occurances, but are very misunderstood!
Seizures, per se, are not a specific condition. Rather, they may be
caused by many different types of conditions such as insulin
shock, high fevers, viral infections of the brain, head injuries or
drug reactions.

When seizures recur with no identifiable cause, the person is said
to have epilepsy.

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS

Many individuals have a warning AURA (or sensation) before the
onset of a seizure. Many times, a person about to have a seizure
will physically move themselves from danger (as from the edge of a
train platform) before the seizure begins.

Seizures can range from mild to severe. Mild seizures may take
place and end in a matter of seconds.

Severe seizures may involve uncontrollable muscle spasms, rigidity,
loss of consciousness, loss of bladder and bowel control, and in
some cases, breathing that stops temporarily.

Many epileptics carry cards or bracelets which identify their
condition.


FIRST AID

Summon professional help. Prevent the person from injuring
themselves by moving furniture or equipment.

DO NOT ATTEMPT TO RESTRAIN A PERSON SUFFERING A SEIZURE AND DO
NOT PUT ANYTHING IN THEIR MOUTH!

Loosen clothing. If they vomit, turn on their side to allow fluids
to drain. Stay with the person until they are fully conscious. If
trained, administer rescue breathing or CPR, if required.
 


                                       SECTION XVI
                                    HEAT EMERGENCIES

There are three types of heat emergencies you may be required to
treat.

1. HEAT STROKE

       This is the most serious type of heat emergency. It is
LIFE-THREATENING and requires IMMEDIATE and AGGRESSIVE treatment!

       Heat stroke occurs when the body's heat regulating mechanism
fails.The body temperature rises so high that brain damage --and
death-- may result unless the body is cooled quickly.

       SIGNS & SYMPTOMS

       The victim's skin is HOT, RED and usually DRY. Pupils are
very small. The body temperature is VERY HIGH, sometimes as high as
105 degrees.

       FIRST AID

       Remember, Heat Stroke is a life-threatening emergency and
requires prompt action!
       Summon professional help. Get the victim into a cool place.
COOL THE VICTIM AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE IN ANY MANNER! Place the
victim into a bathtub of cool water, wrap in wet sheets, place in
an air conditioned room. 

       Do not give victim anything by mouth. Treat for shock.



2. HEAT EXHAUSTION

       Heat exhaustion is less dangerous than heat stroke. It is
caused by fluid loss which in turn causes blood flow to decrease in
vital organs, resulting in a form of shock.

       SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS

       COOL, PALE AND MOIST skin, heavy sweating, dilated pupils
(wide), headache, nausea, dizziness and vomiting. Body temperature
will be near normal.

       FIRST AID

       Get the victim out of the heat and into a cool place. Place
in the shock position, lying on the back with feet raised. Remove
or loosen clothing. Cool by fanning or applying cold packs or wet
towels or sheets. If conscious, give water to drink every 15
minutes.

3. HEAT CRAMPS

       Heat cramps are muscular pain and spasms due to heavy
exertion. They usually involve the abdominal muscles or legs. It is
generally thought this condition is caused by loss of water
and salt through sweating.

       FIRST AID

       Get victim to a cool place. If they can tolerate it, give
one-half glass of water every 15 minutes. Heat cramps can usually
be avoided by increasing fluid intake when active in hot weather.


                                      SECTION XVII
                                    COLD EMERGENCIES
HYPOTHERMIA

SIGNS & SYMPTOMS

Signs and symptoms of this dangerous condition which can become
life-threatening are: shivering, dizziness, numbness, confusion,
weakness, impaired judgement, impaired vision and drowsiness.

Hypothermia victims pass through 5 stages, with each stage more
serious and leading to death!

              STAGE 1      SHIVERING

              STAGE 2      APATHY

              STAGE 3      LOSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS

              STAGE 4      DECREASING PULSE AND BREATHING RATE

              STAGE 5      DEATH

FIRST AID

Seek professional help. Get victim out of the cold and into dry
clothing. Warm the body SLOWLY! Give nothing to eat or drink unless
victim is FULLY CONSCIOUS!

If trained, monitor airway, breathing & circulation.

*****************************************************************
                    END OF FIRST AID TUTORIAL

