 
Hello there. And welcome to ATI. the
next issue. I think 11 or something.
 
Activist Times, Inc., is a
journalistic causistic, cyberpolitical
newswire,
trying to help you all, and us change
the world radically, in less than 3
minute incrementss.
  No, seriously. ATI, mostly a
newspaper; is on it's 11th issue.
(were waiting
for Cygnus to figure out how to get 10
out of the cage, so you'll have to look
at this one til that comes out)
  We got our upstart online on the
underground bulletin board computer
systems
across the continent, and stretching
out toward Australia, West Germany, and
England.
  And now we're available on hardcopy.
 We will also provide, ATI on cassette
tape to the hearing impaired.
 
  For more information, write:
  ATI,
  c/o Kelley
  BRO Box 94
  Groton, CT. 06340.
 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
what rhymes with poem???
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
WHERE DO THE PEOPLE GET OFF
 
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE SEE THE THINGS THAT
ARE COMING.
LEAVE NOW, JUMP OFF, RUN, DO SOMETHING
TO SAVE YOURSELF.
 
WHERE DO I GET OFF?
 
ARE WILLING TO POISON GENERATIONS OF
CHILDREN WHILE INDUSTRY PROFITS AND
POLLUTES?
 
DO YOU REALIZE:
1) PFIZER DUMPS 12 POUNDS OF CYANIDE
INTO THE THAMES RIVER EVERYDAY
2) PFIZER SUCKS IN 100 MILLION GALLONS
OF WATER FROMTHE THAMES EVERY DAY TO
   COOL THE PIPES
3) PFIZER BURNS BIOLOGICAL WASTE IN 2
INCINERATORS (THIS MEANS ANIMALS,
   EXCREMENT, HAY, AND PLASTIC)
4) PFIZER HAS ANOTHER INCINERATOR TO
BURN WE DONT KNOW WHAT
5) EB PLANS TO BUILD A TOXIC WASTE
INCINERATOR TO BURN 700 TONS OF TOXIC
   WASTE, 4 DAYS A WEEK; BRINGING IN
WASTE FROM NY, NJ, AND RI.
6) PFIZER HAS HAD SEVERAL MAJOR SPILLS
FROM UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS IN THE
   LAST 14 MONTHS.
7) ENVIRNOMENTAL LAWS ARE BADLY OUT OF
DATE, AND THE EPA, AND DEP ARE
   SERIOUSLY UNDERSTAFFED.
 
PUBLIC AWARENESS RALLY; FORT GRISWOLD,
GROTON, CT. PARKING AT WASHINGTON PARK.
SEPT 24 (SATURDAY) AT 10AM. RAIN
LOCATION, FITCH SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL.
GUEST SPEAKERS, RALLIES, ETC.
 
FOR SALE
The Anarchist Cookbook
by William Powell
22.95
Survival Books
11106 Magnolia Blvd.
Hollywood, CA 91601
 
PHUN IN RICH RURAL TOWNS
by the Prime Anarchist
 Buy a paper from an honorbox and put
all the others on top or next to the
box with a rock on em.
 Move the yellow "police line do not
cross" ribbons to cordone off streets
or busy walkways.
 Swap the streetsigns.
 Move for sale signs to other houses.
 Grocery stores have cards where you
can put up free ads. Advertise
something outrageously cool like a $30
snowblower for someone.
 Use a truck to steal all the garbage
cans and put them all in storage
somewhere. Then put an ad in the
paper: garbage cans for sale: real
cheep.
 Take orange construction cones and
make detours. The one that works best
for us was this: block off 4 4way
intersections so they all have to
detour to the right, and go in a
complete circle. When the circle fills
up traffic will be at a standstill til
a policeman can show up and figure
things out.
 Put signs on convenience store doors
"Back in 5 minutes".
 Get out a plumbing wrench and open
all the fire hydrants.
 Advertise garage sales for people.
 Find out a professor's name at a
local community college and call in
sick for him pretending you're his
wife or roomate.
 Call Mary Kay cosmetics, or Avon, or
a hearing clinic as someone and
arrange a free makeover/eartest in
"your" home.
  -pap-
 
ATI, changing the way people read for
over 2 years.
ATI, a freedom of freedom paper.
ATI, a way of life
ATI, more than just a newspaper, it's
the rag read round the world.
 
Activist Times Inc, is produced by the
Prime Anarchist, and Fah-Q with a
little
help from EE the Minuteman, Jaze,
Ground Zero, Beth, Pizza, and the
usual cast
of abnormals. We are always looking
for contributing editors, by the way.
Just
drop us a line at BRO Box 94.
 
TO THE EDITORS:
  Why is Manuel Noriega trading drugs
to Bush for guns?
  JS (512)
 
HEY EDITORS:
  Could you tell the guys at Playboy
that I think Peter Moore's compilation
of
the Reagan Years, the Jelly-Bean
Presidency was phenomnal. Just when we
were
wondering how to sum up eight years of
"bumbling ineptitude", Moore puts it
all
together in a few pages.
  Walt Ingram (303)
 
YO, WORD:
  I'll tell you were George was:
  October, 1980: Iran/France.
Solidifying a deal with Khomeini that
was far
more enticing than Carter could
morally justify.
  Why were we stupid enough to believe
that Reagan "will not negotiate with
terrorists" when he cut the largest
deal we will ever see, (and are still
seeing) before he was even mandated...
 I mean elected.
  Why were we stupid enough to believe
that Reagan was not going to raise
taxes? It's ovious he raised taxes. If
you didnt notice a tax increase; the
last 6 years, you are either too
filthy rich to care, or too dirt poor
to be
squeezed any drier.
  Now, I'm not cutting George for
doing exactly as he was told. I
certainly
would have if you paid me enough.
  I'm saying dont kick yourself 7
years from now for having believed a
garden-
path speech. Look at the truths. Dont
let go. No matter who gets in your
taxes
are going to HAVE to increase to fund
all this growth we are seeing.
  No matter how they gloss it over,
the democratic administraton is going
to
force military duty on your post-teen
children.
  And no matter how well Bush keeps
the ball rolling; this growth is only
putting off the inevitable: a mounting
world depression.
  This November, I will be voting on
local issues only. I plan to pull the
Mickey Mouse/Donald Duck lever on the
national front.
  I wont tolerate being lied to.
  Then again, I had it coming when I
asked for a clown-white, two step
dancin
fool to lead my nation.
  PA (203)
 
  "...Making their future designing
computers, not selling cocaine"
Dukakis to the Baptist ministers
convention 9-9-88.
 
  "International sanctions against
south Africa. In just 60 days".
a promise. Michael Dukakis. same date
 
Overheard at a yip convention; of a
cybernaut:
  "Tight? He's so tight with codes he
can squeeze two calling cards together
and get a PBX."
 
A new patient was quite upset when the
doctors nurse led him to a curtained
cubicle and told him to undress.
  "But I only want my ingrown toenail
looked at," he protested.
  "Our rule is that everyone
undresses, the nurse answered.
  "Stupid rule," grumbled the patient,
"making me undress to look at just my
toe..."
  "That's nothing," came a voice from
the next cubicle over, "I just came in
here to install another telephone."
 
 
LABEL SPOTTED ON A TELEPHONE Please do
not use this telephone unless your call
is of an emergency nature.  For more
information write: committee for a ten
cent phone call- BRO Box 94, Groton,
Ct. 06340.
 
Watchin Night Flight. First time I've
seen that snce about 1985. Good stuff.
They're doin an expose about the
1960's and how it's about to repeat.
I was
talkin to AH the other day, and he was
discussing that very phenomenon.
  "We're repeating the 60's with our
clothes, our music, our poetry, our
rallies. How come we can't start
repeating the political thought too?
That's
why I'm bringing back Steal This Book,
and Dancin In the Ice Age If all goes
well, I'll bring back Woodstock Nation
too.
 
For Sale:
Steal this Book
Steal this Urine Test
Square Dancin in the Ice Age.
Write:
Contemporary Classics
PO Box 15
Worcester, MA 01613
 
 
Well, that's it for this issue of ATI,
the newspaper that makes everyone
xmodem. Watch for the next special.
Our special Colombus Day issue; and
after
that might be a special football issue.
 
 
 
