 
HEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEY
HEYHEYhey, hey, hey, it's ATI!HEY
HEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEYHEY
 
    ****     ********    ********
   ******    ********    ********
  **    **      **          **
  ********      **          **
  **    **      **          **
  **    **      **       ********
  **    **      **       ********
 
                ....
               ..  ..
               . 24 .
               ..  ..
                ....
                      Nov. 5, 1988
 
  **************
 **   RAGON!!  **- - - - - - - - - - .
  **************                    /
 /                                 /
/                                 /
Activist Times, Inc. ATI is a
journalistic, causistic, /
   /cyberpolitical      /
  /organization,       /  4 more info?
 /trying to           /  send SASE
/help y'all, and us  /  stamps???
change the world    /    to:
radically, in less /  ATI
than two minutes  / c/o Kelly
flat.            /  BRO Box 94
- - - - - - - - -  Groton, Ct.
                   06340
 
The nowfamous P A P      Numbers run
             / / /      for 8:40am 1988
 
516-922-wine dial a dirty joke.
516-751-2600 2600 magazine
201-644-2335 ap newsline for the blind
202-456-1414 Reagan's desk
203-324-3117 comedy shop newsline
415-995-2606 Reality Hackers magazine
619-375-1234 time and temp
415-923-0900 PEACENET
-:-:-:-:-:-:-
  ATI Gets         .reprinted from
 Sentimental        ATi issue one.
-:-:-:-:-:-:-
MEGALOMODEMANIA   by Prime Anarchist
- - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - -
 
This is ATI's first hardcopy issue.
  ATI was born on an Atari personal
computer February 9th when I returned
from
a New Jersey-Albany-NYC- Providence
stint which was a direct result of the
Rutgers Convention.
  Other issues will come out as
needed. (you'll probably see us at a
few Dead
shows, Terence D'Arby concerts, and
maybe a Celtics game here and there)
  But for the most part, you can only
get ATI online, using your modem at
Infomaniack BBS. (401)596-8338
  If you feel you MUST DEMAND a
printout of the latest activity
online, send a
SASE (a couple extra stamps inside
might be nice too) to:  ATI C/O Kelley
BRO
Box 94 Groton, Ct 06340 USA
  After interacting with so many
hundreds of freethinking fellow
humanoids I
decided it's my obligation to use
everything I do in life to positive
ends.
  Which means my guitar, my personal
computer, and my journalism skills had
to
be sold back to Free America. No more
National Party Line letters to the
editors, groovy love songs, or
compuserve sex chats. It's time to
live an
active life. With trouble brewing in
every single speck of our Earth, these
are
the times for activism.
  It is time for ATI.
 
TO THE EDITORS:
  Why is Manuel Noriega trading drugs
to Bush for guns?
  JS (512)
 
(APWN) New Haven, CT--COVERUP, the
movie was spotted for a week at a New
Haven
movie theater, so it's apparent that
the writers were successful in getting
it
to show B-4 the elections. (a
necessary event)
  But don't plan on seeing it at EVERY
theater. They're gonna smite it as much
as they can.
  Send all reports of where it's
playing (a review if you want too,
maybe even
viewer response if you've got a good
eye) to the BRO box.
 
===========================
= info following brought  =
= on by a need for more   =
=  real information   =)  =
===========================
(APWN)CHINATOWN . . . . . . . . . . .
 . .- - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . .
 . :   CHOOSING A DOG    :. . . . . .
 . : by The 8th Defendant:. . . . . .
 . .- - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . .
 . :    "a how-to"       :. . . . . .
 . :     t-phile         :. . . . . .
 . .- - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 
    Not much has been written about
watchdogs. I've seen a lot about house
pets, but not about guardian friends
..well here is some information I
believe
no one should do without...
  Just getting a pitbull or a doberman
is not enough. Believe me, I know. You
dont want a dog that's gonna run away
when a robber calls, or bark needlessly
waking the neighbors and getting
himself shot.
  The perfect dog is quiet, loyal, and
strong. I've scared the hell out of
many
a pitbull, and an aweful lot of
dobermans, and on the otherhand, there
are some
neighborhood miniature Schnausers I
would NEVER mess with.
  The most important things you want
your dog to be capable of are,
catching,
and alerting, and waiting. S/he should
have that feline characteristic of
stalking. Nice and quiet, she snoops
up, and catches the threat to your
privacy.
  S/he should have a nice vicious bark
that's reserved for emergency. You
should know by your dog's tone that
something's up so you can come right
over.
  Your dog should then have the
patience of a student activist.
  He or she should be able to wait at
the enemy's feet, gnawing on his
anklebone, taking lots of abuse til
you get there armed with a
gun/fone/plastique (whichever the
situation necessitates).
  Two ways to check your potential dog
follow: Run straight after him. Many a
doberman will run away if he feels
threatened. While a smart move on the
street; this is not wise when
defending land. If s/he takes 2 or 3
steps back,
and digs in, that's your animal.
  Bark. If the dog starts going nuts,
barking, and shouting, and wailing,
s/he's not your pet. You want a quiet
dog. His/her first reaction should be
stepping up alertness. The ears perk
up, the eyes start focusing, the back
hunches up. The best dog will be
sizing up the situation like a Navy
Seal.
  If the dog reacts right to these two
tests, go for it. You'll find your
abode
in good hands.
  Bye, for now. Catch you on the flip
side.  :by the 8th defendant:
 
***MAN EATEN BY LARGE CANOE*** (Con't)
(APWN)Quinektekut--This is a
continuation from ATI 15, and 16.
  That black and the Tan One and the
one who is light from the far east will
teach you to let go of your hatred.
  I cannot teach that. I cannot even
learn it. All I can do is hold hatred
deep
inside my hollow.
  Inside-- where my stomach pits and
aches. I hold it in and near my scalp
there is an emotional brim where I can
release it-- drop by insignificant
drop.
  Her Lady pretended to be the one who
will learn me to let go of my hate.
  "Don't touch," she said. "Not the
time; soon."
  I wait for forever to finally come.
  Forever.
  We bid our dark friends "til next we
gather".
  The witches in the sound by the race
navigate us from the south; our left
side. The westerly gods of wind push
us back to the moutn of the thames.
  You tell me: I had my laugh; it's my
turn to paddle. I smile, as I walk
lowly
to the back of our aguatree.
  I kneel and slice the wet ground
with your dad's sanded and whittled
two-
by-four. You Swedish carpenters are
all so pretty and finished. But the
form
overrides the function and I slow to
start us up the bleeding Thames-- put
my
biceps and forearms and lower back
into the act getting us almost to the
plank
that crosses over to the New
Settlement. You lift the plank 3
inches, we float
under. This is the Thames, remember.
  This is my vessel. I built her out
of a sap. Carved her out myself,
torched
her up and waited for the Arsongods to
finish.
  From the front you see, I have
shaped her like My Lady... Tracy in
all her
frontal glory.
  From the back you will see the horse
you rode in on. Little or no
resistance,
a tail to slice and keep us forward.
  She's our '87 beast. And she gets us
from A point to B point. I turn her
over
and cover her with the quinektekut
tobacco leaves. They are my padlock.
  I am a Pequot. I have hatred, but no
mistrust. Night falls, "later", you
tell
me.
  You return.
 
  /...The /
 /section/    Shake Yo Thang,
/of...  /       A Review.
music  /  Salt 'N Pepa Live on Club MTV
 
  Not bad. These two girls are hot.
They bring their dj along too. I
forgot to
jot down her name. They dance really
good, but the strong thing about them
is
their lyrics.  Totally new and fresh.
Nice to see musicians being original.
I'm
sick of seeing blatant copies of
Beatles, Zeppelin, Jackson 5, etc.
  Salt 'N Pepa is a breath of fresh air
  !!!
 
..J K Galbraith ON VOTING...
  "It is still extremely important
that we have the democratic commitment
that
causes people to say: 'While I'm not
important, I share an obligation with
all
other people to be collectively
important'. This is part of the social
obligation of the citizen."
 
  Although ATI is endorsing Michael
Dukakis, that doesnt mean we are
pushing
him down your throat. Go for a local
libertarian here or there if you have
any
running for senate, or house, grab a
conservative here and there where your
community needs it most. Say yes to
some new liberals, or say no to some
issues
around town. Basically what we're
saying, is:
  Please vote.
 
Dukakis stands with workers. Secure
Jobs, Fair trade and plant closing
nitification, continued health
coverage greater investment, renewed
commitment,
worker protections, stronger job
safety, low cost housing, family needs
package.
  Plus he picked a much better VP than
Bush by far.
 
YOUNG DETAINEES IN SOUTH AFRICA.
A First-Hand Account.
       by Solomzi Davashe
 
(APWN)--There is an incident that
occured on my way to the Northern
Transvaal,
prior to the funeral of our leader,
Peter Nchabaleng. I was arrested at a
road
block, dragged out roughly by a
contingent of the Lebowa police with
their SADF
masters. They saw my UDF t-shirt. I
was trampled down for a long time, my
spectacles got broken, my wrist watch
as well. I was later taken to the tent
where you find the SADF. From the road
block I was driven over bumps in a
remote place, while in the back of the
van. It was nice for the servants of
terror, as they were laughing at me as
I was going up and down and from side
to
side, there in the back...
  This is my experience at the age of
20. It is also the experience of my
generation-- a generation that has
known nothing but torture and
suffering.
 
WELL, THAT'S ATI24. WADDYA THINK? LET
US KNOW. SEND ALL HATEMAIL, LETTERS
OF CHARACTER REFERENCE/ASSASSINATION/
OR DISPUTE TO:
ATI C/O KELLEY
BRO BOX 94
GROTON, CT 06340
  SEND STAMPS TOO. WE NEED STAMPS.
 
 
