this is ATI, activist times, inc.
 
YIPPIE!!!
It starts with advisors.
The Central Intelligence Agency feels
some sort of need to sell drugs, trade
arms, assassinate communists,
fascists, and capitalists for fun, and
stick their noses in everybody's
business.
  You work for them for years. They
make you do things you'd never tell
mom about. They start making you do
things you can't even "tell yourself
about".
  Somewhere along the line you realize
that what started out travel, large
pay, excitement, adventure, making the
world safe for democracy; has become
robbery, embezzlement, murder,
wirefraud, terrorism, corruption,
murder, piggishness, murder,
subversion, and murder.
  NOW COMES QUITTING TIME.
  John Stockwell speaks to us from his
experiences working as a CIA agent.
He's speaking at URI today. He may
have spoken at your school already;
you may be on his "road list" for '88
- '89.
  Listen to the horror stories. Ponder
his analagies. Make his experiences;
your experiences. while you do; ask
yourself, "Do I want the CIA on my
campus recruiting?"
  Personally, I think if CIA would
hold a public debate allowing people
like me and you to ask real questions,
they'd be8;9e than welcom to use one
of our rooms for interviews and
answering any questions a "budding
agent" might have.
  But if you want to drive in and park
your tinted windows in front of the
Union, grabbing a helicopter out back
going to the fieldhouse and then board
a piperplane parachuting over the
alumni building and escorting about 75
uniformed police officers thru the
side door; then...
  GET THE FUCK OFF MY CAMPUS.
 
 
 
 
I SURVIVED RUTGERS '88.
It was the best Be-In I've ever been
to.
  3 or 4 days of gathering,
fellowship, brainstorming, ideas,
entertainment, tabling, leafletting,
hell. We even allowed the fascists a
table.
  It was exciting, it was awesome, but
nothing "solid" happened from it.
  Yet.
  I would like to cite 4 units for
making Rutgers happen, and holding the
thing together. If by a thin thread
that started to look really frazzling.
 
  1 <-=-Christine   2 <-=-Edwardo  3 <
-=-Stewart  4 <-=-The rest of the
Rutgers hosts and assorted yellow-arm-
banded delegates.
  I'll also share 2 schools who came
bearing something solid they wanted to
bring back with them. <1> MIT  <2>
Berkley. Something old, something new,
borrowed and blue too.
Old? Berkley. One of the oldest
freethinkin colleges Amerika has to
offer. Why not? It's California.
New? MIT. They call Massachussetts
home. Probably the first state that'll
legallize marijuana. Amherst? Boston?
CZ? Dukakis? Somethin brewin!!!
Borrowed? The whole idea behind a
constitution.
Blue? People bummed out that nothing
really "happened". The black caucous
ripped us to shreds Sunday morning,
showing us for what we really are, and
still most overcome:
  Slightly racist, semi homophobic,
somewhat ready to gather but not quite
ready for a constitution.
  I say fine. Let's keep in touch,
relax, and get ready for what's sure
to "glue" us together really fast.
WORLD TROUBLE!!!
 
The 3M's of organizing -- Media,
Music, & Modem. By Steve Van Zandt,
Marc Graham, and Abbie Hoffman.
    -mf-
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 -c-
 
The 60's weren't the greatest of times
or anything-- they sure were great--
but these may be the greatest of
times.
  The 60's were the awakening of
revolution and this is another step in
that revolution.
  School needs to be changed. We need
to talk about more than the history
they want us to believe. We need to
get into the education process. The
real history. The artist tries to
stimulate thought. The media is really
the way to get across.
  We shut down Sun City overnight.
Once the Billionaire owner showed up
on Phil Donahue we knew we won. And
the fact that we wasted him on
National TV was icing on the cake.
  A new way of organization; a
computer networking system.
Communicate, share, co-ordinate,
collaborate, update, type, edit,
store, fast. Online worldwide.
  Peacenet.
  Amnesty International can type an
Action Alert and get it to Greenpeace,
WRL, and SANE faster than you can hit
your <enter> key. Since the users
govern what information is sent, it is
unfiltered. Most of the news we get
each day has been edited out and
watered down. Not so as much with
networking.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Bitnet is a global network that
makes the host system local to every
college campus in the World.
  More than 650 are registered
delegates as of this moment,
representing over 130 schools. You've
come despite freezing weather and hard
economic times to do something I'm not
sure anyone here is yet ready to
comprehend. But, I'm absolutely
convinced that you are making history.
 
  No one has done anything this bold,
imaginative, creative, and daring. To
bring this many strains of people
together who all believe in the same
kind of change...
society. It's just an amazing feat;
and I wish you the best of luck today
and especially tomorrow as you make
the decision whether to go backward or
forward.
 
 
RAMBLINGS   by the Third Shifter
 
1 am Sunday morning (saturday nite) A
local cop comes in and buys a
crossword puzzle book and a jumbo pack
of gum.
  "Long nite, eh?" I suggest.
  "Hmm."
  <car 3, respond to X st. broken down
vehicle> He turns up the volume on his
radio and concentrates. <check and see
if it's safety prob or not. Two black
youths>
  He gives me the money and turns to
leave.
  "Gotta roll," he says.
  "Hey," I tell him, "If it's a black
kid and a Puerto Rican kid, take good
care of 'em. They're pretty cool. From
my hometown. They just bought 2 quarts
of oil off of me."
  He grunted maybe; and left.
  I hope my THOUGHT stuck with him. He
looked like your typical "Jewbeater".
 
 
 
---
NO!
---            by Refuse-Nick
 
*Aint gonna send no money down
when there aint no money to spend
aint gonna station no troops down
there
to kill someone else's best friend.
  Aint gonna fight no foreign wars
  dont even know what we're fighting
for
  aint gonna fight no wars no more
  we shoulda learned that in the 60's
*Cant justify no homemade fight
or jammin our philosophys down their
throats
cant rationalize no secret wars
we shoulda learned that in the 60's
*why cant we spend our money on things
 
that dont have to do with bombs n guns
 
why cant we send our food down there
instead we gotta act like the 60's
 
*in our efforts to show the world
how democracy and freedom can work
we find ourselves bossin people around
 
n advocating military states of war
*we find ourselves tied economically
down
we oughta get our noses outa the fire
so we dont get our fat nostrils burnt
we never ever learned from the 60's.
 
 
MEGALOMODEMANIA   by Prime Anarchist
- - - - - - - -      - - - - - - - -
This is ATI's first hardcopy issue.
  ATI was born on an Atari personal
computer February 9th when I returned
from a New Jersey-Albany-NYC-
Providence stint which was a direct
result of the Rutgers Convention.
  Other issues will come out as
needed. (you'll probably see us at a
few Dead shows, Terence D'Arby
concerts, and maybe a Celtics game
here and there)
  But for the most part, you can only
get ATI online, using your modem at
Infomaniack BBS. (401)596-8338
  If you feel you MUST DEMAND a
printout of the latest activity
online, send a SASE (a couple extra
stamps inside might be nice) to:
Marco
PO Box 1211
Westerly, RI
02891
USA
  After interacting with so many
hundreds of freethinking fellow
humanoids I decided it's my obligation
to use everything I do in life to
positive ends.
  Which means my guitar, my personal
computer, and my journalism skills had
to be sold back to Free America. No
more National Party Line letters to
the editors, groovy love songs, or
compuserve sex chats. It's time to
live an active life. With trouble
brewing in every single speck of our
Earth, these are the times for
activism.
  It is time for ATI.
 
 
 
 
