 
 
              AA            TTTTTTTT           IIIIII
             A  A           TTTTTTTT           IIIIII
            AA  AA             TT                II
            AAAAAA             TT                II
            AAAAAA             TT                II
            AA  AA             TT                II
            AA  AA             TT                II
            AA  AA             TT              IIIIII
            AA  AActivist      TTimes          IIIIIIncorporated
 
 
                              ISSUE: 10
 
    Eleven actually came out before this one.  We waited a great deal of time
for this one while attempting to unscramble it with a sector editor.  This was
going to be our second 80 column issue, and our first Amiga issue, but I guess
it's back to the old 8bit atari.
 
Oh well.    ()()()()()()()()()()()
           ()()() disclaimer ()()()
            ()()()()()()()()()()()
 
     A lot of people are complaining about the ascii formatting of my
T-Philes.  Most people ask what kind of commodore, err, computer I use.  Yes,
I have an old 8bit atari, but that isn't the problem at all.  I found out an
hour ago that it's my modem.  And my dip switches look like this:
 
             >-----------------<
         alligator   :      alligator
           clip      :        clip
                   bell
                   wire.
 
    AND I'M NOT TOUCHIN 'EM UNLESS SOMEONE LENDS ME A 12 OR 24 HUNDRED BAUD
MODEM IN CASE I SCREW IT UP BIGTIME.
 
    The only other complaint I'm hearin, is the 40 column format.  I'm sorry,
but until EVERY computer hosts 80 columns I will publish at 40 columns.  If yo
want an 80 column issue, get out your favorite text editor or word processor.
    At any rate, if you find yourself unable to read these issues, try
downloading them another way, or from another board.  Some sysops have changed
the format using some program that's out there.  When I find out what the name
of the program is, I'll publish it here, and/or publish names of boards now
and then where it's formatted properly.
    FLASH!!! WHO IS THE BAND THAT DID THE REMAKE OF LED ZEPPELIN'S "LIVIN
LOVIN MAID"? Sounds like Fatboys, but it sounds awesome.
 
       NOTAS MUSICAS!!!
  --- -------- --- ----- -------
  The official ATI music section.
  --- -------- --- ----- -------
  To the tune of "Frito Bandito" commercial:
            Aye, Aye, Aye, Aye.
            Your mother sucks chrome
            off a bumper hitch.
 
     When stuck between two lousy choices ie: Bush/Duke, US/SU, Coke/Pepsi,
McDonalds/Burger King-- I always say choose BEER
               Then instead of having to come up with an explaination, simply
say, "Dunno, I was cocked".
 
     "Little" Steven Van Zandt told me last April that SPIN was really about
the only worthwhile RockRag to check out any more.  I guess he was just as
angry with Hit Parader, Cream, and Rolling Stone as I was.  I didnt notice so
obviously until this month.  (sept 88 issue) (the one with Traci Chapman on
the cover...  you know, the black chick with the nappi hair)
     Anyways, here's a few thoughts from various musicians I decided to
highlight for you in case you cant get out and steal a copy or buy it maybe.
(I did)
     HOLLY NEAR: If you write a generic peace song that just talks about peace
really propose solutions or if you put forward some kind of analysis of what
is causing war or racism or sexism.
     You saw that when Little Steven was doing much more specific things about
south africa.  It was alright to feed the Africans, but when we talked about
actually wanting the Africans to liberate themselves and take control of their
own countries, then it was less of a hit than the humanitarian concept of just
feeding the poor African people.
     BILLY BRAGG: For some artists, being political is what sells their
record, for good or bad.  Certainly my audience is based on political stuff.
Nobody ever asks me what guitar strings I use or what I was doing in my next
video.  They all want to know when I am going to think of a good rhyme for
"socialism".
     PETER GABRIEL: I really hope young people get a sense that they CAN make
a difference in what is going on.  I think that isthe most important thing-
that they dont feel victims of the world; that they feel in charge of the
world, because it's theirs to inherit.
     NONA HENDRYX: to me, the basic problem is to continue.  Not only for the
artist to do it but the audience or the people who are listening to stay
involved.  Not only on the large level, but on the small level, in your
community, your neighborhood, your state.
     MERLE HAGGARD: was always necessary.  From the time I was in the fourth,
5th grade, it would be on my report cards, only the teachers would call it
staring out the window.  But what I was doing was trying to write songs.
     JACKSON BROWN: A door was kicked open with Band Aid and Live Aid so that
you saw a little bit of the rest of the world.  Then the door opened a little
further when you saw that there was apartheid in south africa.  Now the door
has really been kicked wide open because you see that our government is
involved in a lot of things like selling arms to Iran, trading arms for
hostages, and diverting money illegally to wars that really can only be called
private wars now.
     LITTLE STEVEN: In the media, that's where the battle is.  that's where
the communication is going on -- where the public opinion is going to be
effected.  That's were education is going to take place.
 
     Any of you who attended the Rutgers Conventin last spring will remember
the seminar called Media, Modem, and Music put on by Abbie Hoffman, Marc
Greenberg, and Little Steven.  They dealt with a revolution in the music
industry, (and moreso the WHOLE media industry) saying a major change was on
its way.  These quotes, and many others in last month's SPIN just grabbed my
attention, and made me think that change might be already powerfully on its
way.  (especially if you heard any of Traci Chapman's other (pronounced "not
played on the radio statons)) songs.
     At any rate, I didnt mean for this article to make sense as a whole.  It
was more or less a collage, of musical stuff that might get you grabbin your
acoustic; or hopefully your million watt marshall stack.  cause this shit has
GOT to get out.  s/ prime.
 
FAH-Q'S CORNER.................
     Well here we are in Indianapolis.  ATI had to go on vacation and just get
away from the local secret service...  I mean the police.  This place is
great.  I am checking for 1800 diverters from my hotel room.
     You can do all kinds of schitt from a hotel room phone.  When we checked
in they never asked for ID so I told them I was Phillip Regular.  They gave us
a room in the exec section when I told them I ran a newspaper.  The room cost
33 a night with a bottle of wine.  Well to get back to the phone.  In this
hotel they have a system that can dial direct to another room, just by dialing
a 3 digit number.
     Well when I checked in the clerk told me I had to dial 0 and tell the
desk I wanted an outside line.  Well there is no dialtone on these fones, so i
must be dead til you dial a #.  Well I was in 136, and my friends were in 135.
I dialed their # to tell them to wake up.  When they hung up I got a dialtone.
I dialed 0 for the desk but instead I got an operator from Indiana Bell.  I
called the office to get a printout of all the calls from this room and they
said there WERE no calls.  I don't know how that happened but I'm uploading
this
phile from the fone in my room right now and I'm not paying for it, I can
assure you.
 
rosto
 
We found the rastafarians here in Indy.  They are hanging around the
courthouse handbilling.  I lost mine, but it said along the lines: laws for po
and the constitution grants freedom of religion, and their religion called for
weed.  So they should be able to use it in religions practice.  They have been
fighting for reform for 5 years here in Indy because there is a big order of
Jamaicans and others who practice here in Indy.
 
?
 
     I asked crash to marry me lastnite.  She said yes.  We will tell you when
the wedding is.  If I get everything set and get an apartment and stuff, the
Prime Anarchist'll be the best man.  I havent told him yet, so you know before
he does.
 
     Goodbye from Indy the next trip will be to Hawaii on my honeymoon so
listen for the hula issue.
 
Fah-Q
    Live from INDY.
 
     Oh, the speed limit here is 65.  For those of you who live in a 65 zone,
the cops'll let you get away with 75-80 most of the time.  They set their
radar at 82 so you have a 17 mph leeway.
 
bye
 
        *.*
    *    .    *
   *     .     *
   *    .  .    *
    *  .   .  *
        * *
 
     Saw a neat ad on TV for Citibank (criminals they are!!!)
     It was a customer discussing her card's abuse, and how helpful citi-
corpse was thru it all.  They told her she wasnt responsible for the $200
Amigas, sneekers, fonesex, etc, that likely showed up on her fonebill.
     "Had it been another company besides citibank, it would've been ME doing
the talking..."
     Ha.
     As if some other company would be different.  Gimme a break.  YOU ARE
RESPONSIBLE TO THE 1st $50 OF FRAUD AND THAT'S IT!!!
     To report a lost or stolen card, call 1-800-336-0046.  I say call them at
least once a day.  Make up some names and addresses.
     "I dont remember the account #; can you look it up?"
     FLASH!!! I JUST DIALED IT AT 5AM AND GOT NO ANSWER.  GAVE UP AFTER 130
RINGS.  IMAGINE THAT.  MY CARD GOT STOLEN AND I CAN'T GET AHOLD OF THEM TO
CANCEL IT.  GIVES MY BURGLAR THAT EXTRA TIME TO PLAY AROUND WITH my CARD!!!
     Put those detectives to work.
 
     SUGGESTION OF THE MONTH: above cigarette machines and stuff in all the
stores, you'll see APPLICATIONS to credit cards, motor clubs, vacation
getaways, magazines, and assorted stuff.  (especially citicorpse stuff)
     Send in about 30 or so.  Blank?  Inaccuracies? Full of swears? etc...
 
     IF YOU FIND MISTEAKS in this publication, please consider that they are
theyre for a purpose.  We publish something for everyone and some people are
always looking for mistakes.
 
 
     THE VERY FAMOUS P A P
                    / / /
                    prime
                      anarchist
                        productions
      numbers section
      Just remember.  Running #'s is not only fun, it's a moral imperitive in
 
      215-820-3542 hear the prime anarchist's voice.  Please dont leave a
      message on THAT box.  He can no longer retrieve 'em.
      800-874-2369 (box 5212) Codesline.  Second most agressive to date.
      805-681-5550 (5095) 3rd most agressive codezline (FLASH) (WENT DOWN
      WITHIN THE LAST HOUR)
      516-751-2600 2600 Magazine (the hacker quarterly) voice number.
      800-999-club have your credit card ready to set up your own personal
      mailbox on CLUB's voice messaging system.
 
 
     Trivia type stuff:  Since 1935, Parker Brothers has produced nearly
3,000,000,000 little green houses for its Monopoly game.
 
     A mailcarrier, injured after stopping a rolling car from running over an
elderly woman, was reprimanded by his superiors for engaging in "an unsafe act
 
     Introducing Vice President George Bush at a fund-raising dinner, Wisconsi
Governor Tommy Thompson proclaimed, "It's time for the Bush pregnancy to
begin".
 
  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
  some  .  .  people.
 
  .are.  .  just.  so.
 
  .  .  stupid.  .  .  .
 
  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
     About 4 months ago I ran a dial-a-joke with one of the PAP phone lines.
Every day I put up a new joke or two and it was pretty radical.  I had some
weird responses I'll tell you.
     There was one subtle one where I spoofed an operator and assumed everyone
Dial a Joke.  All of our jokes are currently busy, but if you please hold, the
next available joke will be right with you.  Guess what?
     These three girls waited there for half an hour for the "next available
joke".  My machine got to eavesdrop on a 30 minute conversation between these
3 girls about goldfish, boys, money, school, and assorted other boring stuff
     Well this one takes the cake, and I've decided to reprint the transcr
you.  This one is NOT 30 minutes, it's just 3 minutes, cause I switched my
machine over after that 30 minute fiasco.
     This girl (they sounded like navy wives) had her friend call my machine
on three-way, and after the beep, they started gabbin about the machine. She's
really creative.  the girl gave me credit for 3 jokes I NEVER once put on my
machine.  I guess she couldnt remember what the jokes were, so she made them
up.
     My machine message that day went:  "You have reached Lingering Linguini
Pasta Shop.  Flour you doing? Dough go away, we'll be right back.  Just leave
your macaroni on medium high heat; and we'll return the flavor.  Thanks for
cooking.  Ravioli.  Ha.  I kill me.
     Here's what they said.  (southern accents) "It's paaaaaaaasta." "nice,
huh? The last one? He changes it every now and again, ok? Last one I called.
He goes-- he was singin about the EB's.  You know.  Bein on strike? He goes
EB'ers, boy this is the pits, and if you dont believe me, you can eat this
shiiiiiiiiiiit."
     'N then he was singin, n he goes well this is the story that's all I have
to tell, n if y'all dont like it, you can all go to hell.  (she's laughin
hysterically now)
     Where did you get this numbuh?
     It was on this bank.  The bank of barney? And someone stuck it on the ban
of barney.  So I said what the hells dialajoke, so I ripped it off 'n brought
it home.
     And anyway, he was talkin about it.  and it sounded cute, right? so I
said, well, damn.  I'm gonna call this number every now and then and find out
what he does, cause, see? he changed it again.  He changed it wver, cause last
time it was the EB'ers, and this one was about Pasta.  I wonder wht the next
one's gonna be.  hahahaha.
     I like the ending though.  God I kill myself.
     Ha! I kill myself.  hehehe
     Ravioli, heh heh heh.
     Anyway, it was cute.  This cute little talkin machine.  He changes it
every time that makes the secone-- or third, time he's changed it.  Oh, and
one, he was talkin about his wife.  He goes, Oh boys, bat down the hatch, I'm
gonna go see my wife and get me some snatch.  And I'm goin Oh my
gawwwwwwwwwwwwwd.  I let Chuck listen to that one; he wuz laughin? And he
expects you to leave a message after hearin that.
     that's silly.
     I'd like to know who he is.
     Oh, he's stupid.  I coulda done something to that and made a hundred
bucks; but I turned it down.
     what did you do?
     <Then the 3 minute message limiter cuts em off>
     That drove me crazy.  They called early in the morning when I was just
starting to wake up too.  And I couldnt figure out what was goin on.  But when
I played it back I figured out one had the other on 3way, and they had no idea
the machine was recordin them talkin about it.
     What a scream.
 
This has been ATI ten.  Keep in mind.  eleven and 12 came out before this
issue, but this was meant to be ten, so we're keepin it that way.  Hope you
 
 
 
 
 
Gfiles: (1-5, ^1),?,Q :
    ****     ********    ********
   ******    ********    ********
  **    **      **          **
  ********      **          **
  **    **      **          **
  **    **      **       ********
  **    **      **       ********
          c       i              n
           t       m              c
            i       e              .
             v       s
              i       ,
               s
                t
                  vol. 2                      issue 12
                       went to press, 23rd sept.
                           t-philed, 10-3-88
 
SPECIAL ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUE 23 Sept 1988 With an eye on trashy type stuff.
 
 
             **************
            ** disclaimer **
             ************** This issue was made "B-4" 10, and 11.
 
So, here it is. another pfine pap production.
 
Saturday afternoon, an attack on Pfizer and General Dynamics will begin.
We're not gonna key in on those two, you can go to the function if you wanna
know more about THEIR enviro- problems. (Fort Griswold Park, Sat., Sept 24,
10am) We're gonna try tackling some of the less obvious companies in our
locale here.
  First, a very short word on Pfizer.  The only major company left in South-
eastern Connecticut that hasn't pulled out of South Africa.
  Next a quick word on GD.
  ATI recently did a special survey of the Electric Joke shityard grounds for
ARDIS (John Stockwell's group) and Del- Aware (Abbie Hoffman's band of weary
travelers) to see if EB could do any sneaky shit under the FEMA project. We
concluded that it would be too hard to convert any buildings from their
current purpose over to concentration camps for the blacks and dissidents as
per Louis Guiffrida's "California Paper".
  2 days after the document hit the post office, General Dynamics announced
the go-ahead for a large toxic waste incinerator.
  Now what could a conservative state do with a row of large stoves??? At any
rate, we all know that EB and Pfizer are naughty. Let's list a few other local
bad boys.
 
 
1)Mystic Color Lab     1)silver 2 EB                   2 toxic waste 3
pfizer               3 t. w.  4)Dow                  4)latex sux!!!
5)Hess                 5)Waste oil 6)Soneco               6)can you say
                         cyanide.?.  7)Millstone            7)lubricants
                         ind. waste.  8)Naval base           8)old diesel
9)Ming Garden          9)grease traps 0)Evans Shell          0)waste oil in
                         sewers.
 
..   ...   ...
 
where's doug???
 
..   ...   ...
 
Mystic Color Lab got nailed last month for dumping excess quantities of silver
into the river. They were supposed to undergo weekly monitoring; but lo and
behold!!! They've suddenly cut back enormously.
  Is this real?
  The silver that's being dumped is what's left after 3 attempts to
electronically pan out each silver molecule. What's left cannot be gotten.
The silver (alone or joined) is VERY dangerous to plant life in and out of the
rivers. To meet standards, MCL has attached a 3rd chemical making it LOOK like
they've cleaned up their act.
  Bullshit.
  MCL is still damaging us.
 
  As we said, EB is doing mega toxic waste. EB is also responsible for a large
portion of our nation's acid rain problems.
  So is Pfizer. Some suggest AIDS got its genesis at an African branch of
Pfizer Corp.
  A word on DOW: ever get really sick from lighting a styrofoam cup on fire?
One cup? Dow, burns about 1000 cups worth of styrofoam a day.
  Hess? Waste oil is no fun. This stuff shows up in the Thames river now and
then. Fish dont like waste oil. You know things are bad when you open up a can
of tuna (in its own oils) and you see a tiny little barge floating around
trying to make a delivery and it asks you where the dock is between Pfizer and
EB.
  Soneco burns all their boxes instead of trucking them out to New Jersey. Too
expensive. These boxes are chemically treated so they're strong enough to hold
harsh stuff.
  Millstone is responsible for a LOT of industrial waste. It's not just for
radiation any more. hehehe. You'll see a lot of lubricants and shaved up
metals floating around in Waterford's waters.
  The Naval base stored up diesel fuel for the past 40 years. They simply ran
out of room on the lower base. So, now they burn up about 3 drums a day. 35
year old diesel fuel has a distinctive odor. Much like raw bat-shit.
  Ming Garden. Why did MG make our hit- list? Don't panic. It's not for their
way of handling the excess kitten population; although rumors fly. Ming Garden
their greasetraps right down into the ground at the end of each night.  Ever
wonder where crabgrass comes from?
  Evans Shell. Again; another purely arbitrary assignment. This guy's gonna
have to take the heat for ALL the service stations that clean engines right
over a sewer grate. Also going into these sewer grates are any leftover,
useless, (and very potent) oils and assorted solvents.
  There you have it. Put that in your pipe and smoke it. Apple core; say no
more.
 
........................ .a nonpaid advertisement. (hey. we're
........................ havin trouble
                          collectin our debts just like the rest of em!!!)
  The all new FNORD TORMENT.
  100% stainless steel tires that whir at 30 MPH; and scream really high at
60.
  FNORD TORMENT has 20 foot tunable hydraulic shocks for slipping over VW's in
heavy traffic.
  The TORMENT has a LARGE hood scoop that eats mosquitos, gnats, and medium
sized birds and water foul; converting them to fuel.
  A 32 character LED panel in the window is for typing in obscenities at
tailgators, and would-be tailgators. Also serves as a written warning in
advance of Super-illuso-brakes.
  Toggle break lights are there for when you dont want to actually use your
breaks; but you want to get someone off your ass while still maintaining an
accelleration.
  For those not shaken up by FNORD TORMENT's fake brakelights; uzi-lookin
things pup up out the tailfins. And for unbelievers: fullsized ammo.
  For people who wont turn off their highbeams, a megawatt Amtrak Halogen
light on the front. Part # w.att.1k; commonly referred to as the "DEATH RAY".
  New TORMENT D-Day style launch pad allows marbles and glass tacks to roll
out back from the underside of the FNORD TORMENT.
  12" woofers and 5" piezos with a drop-in overhead microphone, are stock with
this FNORD for announcing things like, "get the fuck outa the way", or "sunday
driver".
  Special option can be ordered for this FNORD model: a wireless helmet with a
built in condenser mic and infra red goggles for night driving when you just
dont feel like turning on your lights.
  Drunk drivers got you down? Someone weaving in and out, taking away your
concentration? Maybe endangering your life? Turn on the special glowlights
that whisper a shimmering flow from one side of the FNORD to the other making
his world spin sideways. The drunk will lose all judgement and go wail an
embankment or guardrail all by himself.
  Th TORMENT is an electronically fuel injected turbo-charged all terrain
  As hightech as this vehicle is; The FNORD TORMENT'S alarm system is still a
female pit bull terrier.
   -kh- that was a something on the lighter side from Kevin Nukkl-Hed.
K.nukkl-hed is a contributing editor.
 
AN EYE ON THE STRIKE
  With Hurricane Gilbert dead and gone, outpuffed and petered out, done went
and skidaddled, there's a new storm brewin in rotten Groton, Connecticut.
  Electric Joke has filed an "unfair strike" charge against the MTC. (metal
trades council)
  Admin says they only gave 29 days notice; MTC claims they gave
 
      /----------------------
     / this column brought /
    / to you by Pfizer;   /
   / germ warfare capital/
  / of the world!!!     /
  ---------------------/
 
84. It's a quiet strike; you can drive up or down Eastern Point Road without
fear of getting your car tipped over.
  So far.
  Other unions across the nation have promised to show up and help out when
the going gets rough. People promising are the Teamsters, the United
Paperworkers, Entertainment Guild, and Ronald Reagan.
  Past rallies have been fair to midland considering the weather and stuff.
Next rally is scheduled for Saturday, October 8. This is apparently going to
be held at one of the main gates. this seems to be a union that refuses to be
broken. We'll have to wait and see.
 
---------------------------------
          FAH-Q'S CORNER >>>>>>>..
                                . .
  "I WAS JUST PUTTING litter    .  .  in its place".                  .   .
  Well, i was driving down the  .    .  road in Groton city and i blew my nose
littering and said it carried a $500 fine. i said all i was doing was
following what i learned as a kid. he asked me what i was talking about. i
said well if i put the kleenex in the garbage can what would it be. he said
garbage. ok, and if i put the kleenex on the ground what is it. he said
litter. i said good, i was just putting litter in its place. he laughed so
hard he let me go.
 
 
         ($)($)($)($)($)($)($)
        ($)NOTAS MUSICAS!!! ($)
         ($)($)($)($)($)($)($)
  NO ONE HAS more to say lyrically about our environment than Little Steven.
Here's a few quips from the guy.
  "The land is my mother
   she is worth dying for.
   I've walked the path of peace
   but I aint runnin no more.
 
  "THey've got their silver and gold.
   Money wont be enough.
   When they try to explain to children
   Why they've poisoned their own blood
 
  "As long as the 4 winds blow
   Our spirits remain
   The 4 winds will never
   Blow away America's shame.
 
........................
 .          !!!          .
  .Little Steven is world .
   .famous for his solo    .
    .projects like SunCity  .
     .and the Amnesty project.
      .He's also a consultant .
     . with a National Student
    . Convention movement.  .
   . His biggest concerns  .
  . seem to be Indians, the
 .environment, and world .  .peace...................
 
WCNI southeastern Connecticut's only real radiostation... unless you count
Q-1-0-repeat. (W-U-B-boring) Blan, and REM like on your FM dial.
 
ATI, Activist times inc, is a cyber- political newswire coming out about twice
a week. Specials happen when ever they must.
  All ATI material is not copyright (c) 1988 so there is no such thing as
plagiarism as regards this wire.
  To get a hard copy of ATI now and then, send a SASE to:  Kelley BRO Box 94
Groton, Ct. 06340
  Send extra stamps if ya wanna. We can never have too many stamps. Hint,
hint; nudge, nudge. Wink, wink. Say no more...
 
GOOD NEWS BAD NEWS:
  First the bad news.
  3 out of 4 people'll get gingevitis.
  Now the good news. 3 out of 4 wouldve gotten it anyways. Just still another
product sold based on a created need and fear.
  When will this poppycock end???
 
ATi is published by PAP prime
                   ///   anarchist
                        productions ATi got its upstart online as a monthly
e-newsletter at the underground bbs's in NEw York, and Rhode Island. Things
moved toward a weekly, and hard copy was always in the works. Again, to get a
HARD COPY:  Send a SASE to:  Kelley BRO Box 94 Groton, Ct 06340 Contributing
editors:  Prime Anarchist (215) Fah-Q  (203) Aron Kay  (718) Ground Zero (201)
Repro   (800) Fission   (206) Highwayman (703)
 
 .  #'s make the world go around . . and so goes the ATI #'S SECTION
 
TALES GALLERY and the AUTOBAHN bbs are the awe-fish-y'all ATI host boards now.
  Call them for the fastest availablility at:
   TG) 2038340367
    A) 7036294422
 
516-922-wine Dial-a-dirty-joke
800-ana-rchy anarchy t-shirts
202-456-1414 raygun's desk
202-363-1569 meese's desk
415-995-2606 reality hackers magazine
516-751-2600 2600 mag
201-644-2335 associated press for blind
718-435-1199 THE news line
 
 
 
 
Gfiles: (1-5, ^2),?,Q :
"IN ORDER TO FORM A MORE PERFECT UNION.
              How bold"
                 -Mario Cuomo. 10-5-88
                   *******
                  *Special*
                 *Thirteen *
                 * Colonies*
                  * Issue *
                   *******
 
     AA      TTTTTTTT    IIIIIIII
    AAAA     TTTTTTTT    IIIIIIII
   AA  AA       TT          II
   AAAAAA       TT          II
   AAAAAA       TT          II
   AA  AA       TT          II
   AA  AA       TT          II
   AA  AA       TT       IIIIIIII
   AA  AA       TT       IIIIIIII
         C        I              N
          T        M              C
           I        E              .
            V        S
             I        ,
              S
               T
 
 
 
==========================
THE  13  BBS  COMMANDMENTS
     by the Unknown Author
==========================
1.  Thou shall love thy BBS with all thy heart and all thy bytes.
2.  Thou shalt remember thy name and password.
3.  Thou shalt not POST IN ALL CAPS!
4.  Thou shalt only call a BBS two times a day.
5.  Honor thy SysOp.
6.  Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's password, nor his or her
    real name, computer, software, nor any other thing belonging to
    him or her.
7.  Thou shalt use the English language properly.
8. Thou shalt help other users.
9. Thou shalt not occupy thy BBS with thine arguments, for
    Verily, I say unto thee that thou shalt maketh a fool of
    thyself.
10. Woe be unto the user who attempt to crash thy BBS, for he or
    she shalt be cast out from the sanctuary of thy hobby and
    must repent by doing 40 days and 40 nights of penance of
    voice-only communications.
11. Thou shalt confine thy messages to those of friendship,
    requests for assistance, ai$ ^F!Jr+HKY%
J1)&  advancement of thy hobby; and thou art obligated to repel any
    who wouldst transgress upon those commandments.
12. Thou shalt log on properly and in accordance with the SysOp's
    rules.
13. Thou shalt observe BBS time limits.
14. Thou shalt not upload "worm" programs.
15. Thou shalt not ask stupid questions that are already fully
    explained in the BBS instructions.
+++Many thanks  +
+   to the     +
+Unknown Author+
++++++++++++++++
 
..
A.
T.  (203)834-0367 AWE-FISH-Y'ALL
I.               ATI HOST BBS #1
 .  (703)629-4422 AWE-FISH-Y'ALL
#.               ATI HOST BBS #2
'.  (xxx)npa-xxxx AWE-FISH-Y'ALL
S.               ATI HOST BBS #3
 .   (notify us if ya wanna-b 3)
S.  (516)922-wine Jacky Martling's
E.               age old dial-a-
C.               dirty joke!!!
T.  (718)435-1199 THE news line
I.  (201)644-2335 (AP) newsline for
O.               the visionless
N.  (504)356-5619 THE loop. notice
..               both ends= same #
     (718)528-9979 THE tonesweep. (loop
                  checker generator.
                  See if something bugz
                  you.
     (516)751-2600 2600 Magazine
 
   P A P
  / / /   (prime anarchist productions)
        PRESENT:
       --------------------
       BILLBOARDS FROM HELL
       --------------------
ads, articles, thingies gathered
from wherever.
(attendance Optional But Strongly
 Suggested)
THE COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE CABARET
  SCHRUB IN 88!!
   GEORGE SCHRUB'S
   SHADOW
      PRESIDENTIAL
      CAMPAIGN
      KICKOFF
Featuring Dave Lippman. Just returned
from the Edinburgh Theatre Festival
October 5th
Doors Open              $4. Gen
7:30 pm                 $2 stud.
Concert at 8
     & CONTRAGATE RAP TUNE
     OLLIE'S ODE TO BILL CASEY
     SHADOW PLATFORM
 
CUP O'SUN productions.
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
FILM SEIZED IN SOUTH AFRICA
(PAP) JOHANNESBURG, SA--Police
Tuesday ordered the seizure
of video cassette-recordings of
the anti-apartheid film
"Cry Freedom", which was banned from
cinemas two months ago.
  Police said local distributors had
inquired about selling the video
cassettes and that illegal or "pirate"
copies of the film already were being
circulated in South Africa. "Cry
Freedom" tells the story of South
African activist Steve Biko, who died
while in police detention in 1977, and
Donald Woods, a white newspaper editor
who befriended Biko.
          -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
Watchin Night Flight. First time I'Ve
seen that since about 1985. Good
stuff. They're doin an expose about
the 60's and how it's about to repeat.
I was talkin to AH the other day, and
he was discussing that very phenomenon.
  "We're repeating the 60's with out
clothes, our music, our poetry, our
rallies. How come we cant start
repeating the political thought too?
That's why I'm bringing back Steal
This Book, and Dancing Thru the Ice Age
If all goes well, I'll bring back
Woodstock Nation too.
 
     ***Steal This Postcard***
  CONTEMPORY CLASSICS
  PO Box 15
  Worcester, MA 01613
Steal this Book.
Steal This Urine Test.
Square Dancing In the Ice Age.
write, or call 617-753-5418 for
prices &/or more info.
        =-=-=-=-=-=-=-
 
THRILLERS AND KILLERS cassette book
                      reviews
Tom Clancy's THE CARDINAL OF THE
KREMLIN and Lawrence Sanders' TIMOTHY'S
GAME could make you late for work if
you listened while getting ready in the
morning: The first is a thickly plotted
fast-paced espionage yarn that pits
Clancy's CIA hero, Jack Ryan, against
the KGB; and the second features Wall
Street private eye Timothy Cone in
three tales of murder, blackmail and
other dirty tricks. S&S 14.95.
 
        - - - - - - - - -
 
(APWN)Storrs, CONN--
We now bring you a transcript from
Governor Mario Cuomo's roadtrip
speeches. (he gets out whenever he
can) we take you to the middle of
a UConn address where he makes fun of
Reagan, Yale, Lee Iacocca, etc., and
he gives us his wish that this year
we set some kind of vision for
America. PAP strongly recommends you
pay the 3/5/9 bucks to see him if
he's scheduled to speak at your local
college, RTM, or Bah Mitsvah.
 
"Aids. 1 out of every 700 children
being born in the city of NY, has
aids. Born to die.
  In 6 years they'll be dead. And you
have to keep em alive until then.
Who's gonna pay the bills?
  We're keeping them alive, but we
have nothing for them at the end of
the line. We cant afford beds, we
cant afford the hospitals, we cant
afford the care; and you talk to me
about peace and prosperity.
  You're telling me we are at peace,
and people are being killed savagely
in the streets of our own country.
 By gangs, by drugs; and you say
we're at peace. Forget about the rest
of the world. How can you say we're
at peace here when the jail cells in
New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey
and everywhere else are bursting, you
say we have prosperity.
  We have more poor than ever before.
21st century's 12 years away, you can
reach out and touch it; it's so close.
21st century's here. The work force of
the 21st century's gonna be black,
hispanic, women, and disabled; black,
hispanic, women, and disabled; black,
hispanic, women, and disabled. The most
vulnerable population we have.
  The drop out rates are fierce. You
dont care; you're not black; you're not
hispanic. You didnt drop out. Your
sister didnt drop out.
  You better care. That's YOUR
workforce. If they're not here to work
in the 21st century, YOU'RE NOT GONNA
MAKE IT. Because this country will not
be able to compete with the rest of
the world.
  And you know what happens when they
drop out? A 15 year old girl? Drops
out in the inner city area? Where does
she go? She-does-not-go-to-the-convent.
  She goes to her body. Where does the
14 year old boy go? he goes to the
street. He sells crack. He gets in the
business. He's a lookout for
cokedealers. He gets 400$ an hour just
for playing what we used to call in
the old neighborhood chickie. Just for
being a lookout. And he winds up in
jail, and he winds up an addict.
  And you're telling me, that the
status quo is good enough??? I CANNOT
say the economy is strong. I cannot
accept that. Now look: you dont have
to have a warden's degree to see
you're being lied to.
  It took 200 years to pile up a
trillion dollar debt. ok? Then we
had a conservative government for 8
years. In less than 8 years they add
another ONE POINT SIX TRILLION DOLLARS
IN DEBT. They nearly tripled it!!!
  You're borrowing money from the
Japanese, the Germans, the rest of the
world. And every year you pay them
interest. 155 billion dollars a year in
interest. You dont have enough money
for college loans, homeless people,
aids, research, roads and bridges are
falling. You "cant afford" health
insurance. Free college, you cant
afford it. Spleens, organs, you cant
afford it. Yet you pay 155 billion
dollars a year in interest.
  Is that prosperity? Is that good
enough for you? Of course not. 155
billion; and it happened in 7 years.
  I'd love to see Michael Jackson
making videos telling the kids to
not use drugs. The one thing I resent
the most about our "war on drugs" is
denying that it is complex.
  Cuomo then recommended a few good
books for the college aged "kids" to
keep up on; and stressed economic
relations with Japan. He also stressed
that we need Africa as they are goin
to be a very powerful 3rd world
alliance when it comes to econ. He
all-in-all gave us a vision for our
country.
  Let's get out there and form a
more perfect union. kick ass.
 
-----------------
:
:Fah-Q's corner.
:
:
   Due to Fah-Q's fast paced, and
everso changing lifestyle, FQ'S corner
will not be here this issue. We're not
forgetting it. We'll slip it in here
when he gets his stuff out. And for
those of you who dont get it, we'll
surely repeat it for 14!!!
 
  In other news, Ground Zero is here.
She'll be here for 3 days or so.
  Her title these days, is Associate
Editor, and creative consultant.
That'll change in a matter of minutes.
And if she gets around to it, she might
honor us by typing in an excerpt or two
from "Screw unto Others" or "How to Get
Anything On Anybody".
 
==== ==== == === === ========= ===
FOLK TIME AT THE OLD HOMESTEAD !!!
==== ==== == === === ========= ===
THIS TRAIN, Inspired by Woodrow Wilson
Guthrie. (yeah, Arlo's dad). Isn't it
interesting one of the best democracy
advocates our country has ever seen was
editor of the Communist Worker's Party
Newspaper???
 
:G:   :D7:  :G:  :C7: :G:  :D7:  :G:
 
This train don't carry no fascists,
This train.
This train dont carry no fascists, this
Train.
This train dont carry no fascists, 2
All beef patty nigger beatin fascists.
This train dont carry no fascists.
This train.
 
This train dont carry no rednecks...
" "      "  "
Yellow belly sapsuckin racist rednecks.
 
This train dont take no prisoners...
Doctors, lawyers, high rollin ministers
 
This train dont mind the wetbacks.
Statue lookin, freedom seekin.
 
This train is for the average people
Everybody rides free long as ya let it
Be.
 
This train is a train of healthcare
Sick, or ill, terminal, or free pills.
 
This train is a train of freedom...
It's what we died for, it's what I
Cried for...
 
C'mon ride for freedom, c'mon...
None of us are free, less'n all of
Us are free.
 
This train won't allow apartheid...
Segregation, degredation...
 
-=-=-=- -=-=-=- -=- -=-=-=- -=-=-=-
 
GRAFFITTI FOUND ON BATHROOM WALL
"Do 8-balls, not baseballs"
Shit.
What're they teachin you in school???
 
=-= =-= =-= =-= =-= === --- =-= =-=
(special pap stuff)--
Is "let them eat cake" day coming up?
I saw Dairy Queen is runnin a promo
called that. Come to think of it, I
 d o   remember it being sometime
around Columbos day. For those of you
just tuning in, some queen in olde times got snagged. Someone overheard
her speaking about the poor
impoverished (redundancy used on
purpose, because) peasants. when asked
what she planned regarding her lower
class; she quoth, "let them eat cake".
  Colleges often times use this every
year to get political thought rolling
by having a bake sale in her name. I
remember it being fall, Sept/Octoberish
but I cant put my finger on the exact
date. Oh well. I'll've to ask someone.
 
WCNI INCW WCNI INCW WCNI INCW WCNI INCW
RADIOWATCH!!! a  p a p
                / / / exclusive
The local radio station was playin
some serious disco tonite. After about
11 minutes, (all I could take, really)
I switched over to the commercial
stations but found myself back to CNI.
  It was tolerable I guess. Hey at
least I hadn't heard the same songs
"over and over and over". No matter
how different the stuff is, at least
it's a refreshing change as opposed
to the week's top 20 played over and
over and over. I come from an old metal background.
  You know,,, Purple, Zeppelin,
Aerosmith, Cult, Sabbath, etc. This
new stuff is for the birds. But I'll
listen to anything once or twice.
That's the new wave side to me, I
guess. Opens me for different
cultures, modes, genres. As long as
you don't play 8 O'clock's song at
12 O'clock and then again at 4, only
to repeat it again at 8.
  Do that and I tune your station
out!!!
 
-=-=>BIRD TYPE STUFF<=-=-
(APWN)-TENN--Danny Quayle was
telling Chattanooga community
college that America was
gonna be on top.
  "We're going to be the envy of the
World", said the chap.
  With his southern accent, I thought
for sure I heard "end of the world".
  Had to play it back on my TV a 3rd
time before I reproved to myself that
he wasnt assuring armageddon.
 
NO JACK KENNEDY
  How the hell can a redneck hick
from Indiana running on a
conservative ticket that makes
McCarthy look wimpy even THINK we're
gonna see him as the next JFK???
  Adolf hitler, maybe; but JFK???
  No.
 
(APWN)Philadelphia--ABBIE HOFFMAN ON
ACTIVISM: The Philly electric company
is upset with me because I'm not just
blowin windmills. They know I'm one
fuck of an organizer. And I'm
willing to risk everything.
Everything.
  That's the mentality you've gotta
develop. Not who you gonna vote for.
You've gotta say, how do we get block
booking now, or how do we get the
cars together, what points are we
gonna raise, are we just gonna go
there to bullshit to argue that
local organizings more important or
we need a black woman lesbian
leader the first time who's against
a vegitarian cabbage kid supporting
arms struggle; is that what you're
gonna do? Stay home.
  Do I think the press should be
allowed to say we're at war right
now? Think about 1 million Indians
in Guatemala killed or driven out
of their homes.
 
WELL THAT'S IT FOR ATI 13. THE
Special 13 colonies issue. Hope you
liked it. And watch for 14!!! Gonna
be a douzy. Hmmm. How do you spell
douzey, anyways??? duze-ey??? Hmmm.
Hey, mon...
 

