Title: Internet Sources of Government Information
Version/Edition: 2nd
Update Frequency: Varies
Date: February 26, 1994
Author/Contact Name: Blake Gumprecht
Author/Contact E-Mail Address: gumpbw@vm.temple.edu, gumpbw@templevm
Institution: Temple University
Descriptive Keywords: Government Information
Intended Audience: Unlimited

_______________________________________________________________________


           Internet Sources of Government Information

                           2nd Edition
                        February 26, 1994

                       By Blake Gumprecht
             Documents Librarian, Temple University

Internet users can now access hundreds of sources of current
government information from around the world -- Census data,
Supreme Court decisions, world health statistics, company
financial reports, weather forecasts, United Nations information,
daily White House press briefings and much more. The Internet has
become a rich resource for government information, in part
because works produced by many government agencies are not
eligible for copyright protection.

So, while government agencies have been criticized for not making
more information available online, enterprising individuals and
organizations have themselves made a wealth of sources available
via the network. A growing number of government agencies too are
beginning to establish systems that can be accessed remotely. You
can now e-mail the President, and enactment by Congress last year
of the Government Printing Office Electronic Information Access
Improvement Act assures the U.S. government's role in
distributing information electronically will increase. A variety
of other proposals suggest that in the future, more and more
information produced by state, local and international
governmental organizations will also be available online,
sometimes exclusively.

In many cases, there are significant advantages to the sources
accessible online over what can be found in the library or via
other means. Internet resources are often more up-to-date than
their paper counterparts. Frequently they can be searched by
keyword. Sometimes they provide information simply not available
in more traditional formats. A word of warning is necessary,
though. Internet resources are constantly changing. What is
available one minute may not be available the next. System
addresses, source directories and file names are often changed
without notice. Sometimes a remote system may be temporarily
unavailable.

This is the second edition of a guide to Internet sources of
government information originally created for the students,
faculty and staff of Temple University. The second edition
includes more than 325 sources, two-thirds of which were not
listed in the first edition. The sources listed are intended to
provide the simplest and clearest route known to the information
described. The preferred source is often a Gopher source because
of the ease of using the Gopher software. Often, however, there
are several sources for the same information. Some may allow more
sophisticated file manipulation. Frequently files can be
downloaded to your personal computer using a feature known as
file transfer protocol (FTP).

When the source listed is a Gopher source, the instructions
assume users can escape the local Gopher menu structure to
connect directly to a remote Gopher. This can normally be done by
issuing the Gopher command in combination with a remote system
address from your system's ready prompt. Contact your local
systems administrator if this doesn't work. Many files accessible
via Gopher are also available using a Telnet command, but don't
assume a Gopher source can be accessed via Telnet. Telnet sources
usually require an account or password and are sometimes not
intended for outside use.

The second edition of this guide includes a few changes from the
first. Because the new edition features many more sources than
the first, sources in this edition are arranged by subject rather
than alphabetically. Each source is listed in only one subject
category. Sources that include information about a wide variety
of subjects are usually included in one of three general
categories that begin the list. Additional access points have
also been added for many sources. Often in the first edition only
a single access point was provided, typically a Gopher source. I
now realize some Internet users do not have direct Gopher access,
so I have supplied Telnet addresses when known. Instructions for
retrieving files via FTP are generally not provided unless the
information is otherwise unavailable. System addresses, source
directories and file names for all sources have been verified at
least twice. I have added in parenthesis the date I last accessed
the source using the information provided.

The "path" listed is the "address" of the remote computer system
where the information described can be found, along with the
steps a user must take to locate the particular directory or file
that contains the information. Slashes in the path separate
commands, steps, or levels in a menu or file hierarchy.
The first part of any path is a command statement that must be
executed to access the remote source of the information. Type the
first part of the path, up to any slashes, and press the Enter
key. If there are no slashes, type the entire phrase.

I would like to thank Terese Austin, Maggie Parhamovich, Joe Ryan
and Kim Tsang, whose guides helped me improve the quality of my
own. I am indebted as well to the ever-helpful participants of
the GOVDOC-L electronic discussion group, without whom this guide
would not be possible. I'd also like to thank Calvin Boyer, whose
U.S. Government Gophers gateway proved useful, and contributors
to Gleason Sackman's Net-Happenings list, an important source of
information about new network resources. Thanks to Larry
Detweiler, Louis Rosenfeld, Mike Showalter and others too
numerous to name who have helped make my guide more widely
available. And thanks to all who have had kind words.

Current and future editions of this guide can be retrieved via
Gopher, anonymous FTP and e-mail. The guide can be obtained via
Gopher or FTP from the University of Michigan's Clearinghouse of
Subject-Oriented Internet Resource Guides...

     Path: gopher una.hh.lib.umich.edu / inetdirs / guides
     on the social sciences / government...

     Path: ftp una.hh.lib.umich.edu / user:anonymous /
     password:e-mail address / cd inetdirsstacks / get
     government:gumprecht

To have a copy sent to you by e-mail, send a message to
mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu. The body of the message should read:
send usenet/news.answers/us-govt-net-pointers/part1

Paper copies of this guide are no longer available. Unauthorized
duplication is prohibited by law, but I'm generally open to
requests. If you have questions, comments or suggestions about
this guide, please contact me using the information below.

              Blake Gumprecht, Documents Librarian
                     Paley Library (017-00)
                        Temple University
                Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19122
                         (215) 204-3187
                      gumpbw@vm.temple.edu
                         gumpbw@templevm


                            *   *   *



                       Reference Resources
                           ___________

Americans Communicating Electronically Gopher: Provides one stop
access to a variety of U.S. government information -- the
National Health Security Act, National Information Infrastructure
documents, North American Free Trade Agreement information and
more. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov (2/94).

Amtrak Train Schedules: Provides schedules for trains on Amtrak's
East Coast corridor. Includes schedules for trains that begin or
end in Boston only. Path: gopher gopher.brown.edu / providence
local & regional information / transportation info (2/94).

Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance: Provides information
about more than 1,000 U.S. government assistance programs
administered by some 50 federal agencies. Searchable by keyword.
Path: gopher marvel.loc.gov / federal government information /
federal information resources / information by agency / general
information resources (2/94). Path: telnet marvel.loc.gov /
login:marvel / federal government information / federal
information resources / information by agency / general
information resources (2/94). Path: telnet database.carl.org /
other information and article databases / federal domestic
assistance catalog (2/94).

Federal Jobs: Lists thousands of federal government job openings,
taken from a variety of Office of Personnel Management computer
bulletin boards. Path: gopher dartcms1.dartmouth.edu / job
openings in the federal government (2/94).

FedWorld: National Technical Information Service system provides
access to more than 100 U.S. government computer bulletin boards,
many of them previously accessible only by modem. Also includes
full text of select U.S. government publications, statistical
files, federal job lists, satellite images and more. The system
is often difficult to access because the number of available
telephone lines is limited. Path: telnet fedworld.gov (2/94).
The full text of select documents is available from FedWorld's
FTP archive. Path: ftp ftp.fedworld.gov / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address (2/94).

Library of Congress Information System: Provides access to the
Library of Congress online catalog, U.S. government copyright
files, databases containing current information about federal
legislation and foreign law, a catalog of sources available in
braille or audio format, a national directory of organizations
and more. Path: telnet locis.loc.gov (2/94).

Library of Congress Marvel: One stop source for a multitude of
government material taken from a variety of sources -- Census
data, Congressional information, White House documents, crime
statistics, State Department reports and more. Path: gopher
marvel.loc.gov (2/94). Path: telnet marvel.loc.gov / login:marvel
(2/94).

National Institutes of Health FTP Archive: Archive of reports
from a wide variety of U.S. government agencies. Path: ftp
ftp.cu.nih.gov / user:anonymous / password:guest (2/94).

National Referral Center Master File: Directory of more than
12,000 organizations qualified and willing to answer questions
and provide information about many topics in science, technology
and the social sciences. Path: telnet locis.loc.gov /
organizations (2/94).

Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) Train
Schedules: Provides access to SEPTA regional rail schedules,
service notices and fare information. Path: gopher
gopher.upenn.edu / penninfo / penninfo / student activities and
services / transportation and parking / septa (2/94).

SunSITE Archives: University of North Carolina system is the best
first source for the full text of important new government
reports. Also provides access to White House documents, NATO
information, North Carolina Supreme Court decisions, full text of
the North American Free Trade Agreement and much more. Path:
gopher sunsite.unc.edu / worlds of sunsite (2/94). Path: telnet
sunsite.unc.edu / login:gopher / worlds of sunsite (2/94).

U.S. Government Gophers: Provides one stop access to nearly 100
U.S. government Gopher systems. Path: gopher peg.cwis.uci.edu /
individuals' information sources / cjboyer / gopher.welcome / peg
/ gophers / united states government gophers (2/94).

U.S. Government Publications Index: Provides keyword access to
citations for U.S. government publications issued through the
Government Printing Office since 1976. Path: telnet
database.carl.org / carl systems library catalogs / carl systems
libraries - western u.s. / carl / library catalogs / government
publications (2/94).

Zip Codes: Database of U.S. zip codes, searchable by keyword.
Path: gopher gopher.uoregon.edu / desktop reference / geographic
and travel information (2/94). Path: telnet gopher.uoregon.edu /
login:gopher / desktop reference / geographic & travel
information (2/94).

                        General Resources
                 Humanities and Social Sciences
                    ________________________

Census Definitions: Provides Bureau of Census definitions for
terms used in Census reports. Path: gopher bigcat.missouri.edu /
reference and information center / united states & missouri
census information / definitions of selected census data items
(2/94).

Census Information: Provides one-stop access to a broad range of
Bureau of the Census-compiled data. Path: gopher
riceinfo.rice.edu / information by subject area / census (2/94).

Census of Population and Housing: 1990 Census data available in
text and Lotus 1-2-3 formats for U.S. cities, counties,
metropolitan areas, states and the nation, with comparisons from
1980. For an archive of historical Pennsylvania Census data, see
the listing for the Economic Development Information Network in
the Economics and Business section of this guide. Path: gopher
bigcat.missouri.edu / reference and information center (2/94).

Census of Population and Housing (Pennsylvania): Detailed 1990
Census data for Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, suburban counties and
U.S. metropolitan areas. Path: gopher gopher.upenn.edu / penninfo
/ penninfo / libraries / electronic reference desk / u.s. census
& statistical data (2/94).

Census of Population and Housing (Philadelphia Metropolitan
Area): Detailed 1990 Census data for the city of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia CMSA, and the states of Pennsylvania, New Jersey and
Delaware. Some files include data to the Census tract level.
Path: gopher cronkite.ocis.temple.edu / temple university
libraries / social science data library (2/94).

Public Opinion Item Index: Though not government information,
public opinion polls provide valuable data about how the
population views the government, its officials and policy issues.
This University of North Carolina system allows users to search
an archive of data from polls conducted by USA Today, Louis
Harris, The Atlanta Constitution and others. Path: telnet
uncvm1.oit.unc.edu / userid:irss1 / password:irss / irss / public
opinion item index (2/94).

Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty Research Institute Daily Report:
Full text of a daily digest of the latest developments in Russia,
Transcaucasia and Central Asia, and Central and Eastern Europe.
Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu / news services (2/94). Path:
telnet una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / news services
(2/94).

Statistics Canada Daily Reports: Full text of daily statistical
reports, lists of publications and more from Statistics Canada,
the Canadian government's primary compiler of statistics. Path:
telnet info.carleton.ca / terminal type:decvt100 / statistics
canada daily reports (2/94).

Statistics Canada Gopher: System still being developed provides
access to the full text of Statistics Canada daily reports,
schedules of upcoming statistical releases, information about the
agency and its publications and more. Path: gopher
talon.stacan.ca (2/94).

Voice of America Gopher: Full text of Voice of America news
reports, program schedules, shortwave radio frequency and
satellite downlink information, and more. Path: gopher
gopher.voa.gov (2/94).

                        General Resources
                  Physical and Applied Sciences
                     _______________________

Congressional Office of Technology Assessment Reports: Full text
of reports produced by the Office of Technology Assessment, which
conducts detailed studies for Congress on a wide range of
subjects, from climate change to health care reform. Path: telnet
cap.gwu.edu / login:guest / password:visitor / go ota (2/94).

Energy Sciences Network (ESnet): Department of Energy system
provides the full text of select DOE documents, many of them
related to computers and information policy, gateways to a
variety of energy-related sources, downloadable public domain
software and more. Path: gopher gopher.es.net (2/94).

Industry and Science Canada Documents: Provides lists of
publications sponsored by Industry and Science Canada, a Canadian
government agency. Arranged by sector. Path: gopher
debra.dgbt.doc.ca / industry canada documents /
isc.publications.english (2/94).

Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Gopher: Provides access to the full
text of select Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory publications, a
catalog of laboratory research projects, a list of job openings,
downloadable weather map images and more. Path: gopher
gopher.lbl.gov (2/94).

Mid-Continent Technology Transfer Center Gopher: NASA system
provides access to the full text of reports about emerging
technologies, lists of available technologies, schedules of
upcoming conferences and more. Path: gopher technology.com
(2/94).

National Institute of Standards and Technology Gopher: Provides
general information about the NIST and the full text of select
NIST publications. Path: gopher gopher-server.nist.gov (2/94).
Path: telnet gopher.nist.gov / login:gopher (2/94).

Oak Ridge National Laboratory Gopher: Provides access to
laboratory phone books, press releases, general information about
the laboratory, as well as a link to the laboratory's
Environmental Sciences Division. Path: gopher
jupiter.esd.ornl.gov (2/94).

Oak Ridge National Laboratory/Martin Marietta Energy Systems
Gopher: Provides access to select laboratory databases, a catalog
of technologies available from the laboratory, laboratory
directories and calendars, information about laboratory research
projects, full text of select reports and papers, and more. Path:
gopher gopher.ornl.gov (2/94).

Science and Technology Information Center: National Science
Foundation system provides access to grant information, NSF
directories and phone books, press releases, full text of select
NSF publications and more. Path: gopher stis.nsf.gov (1/94).
Path: telnet stis.nsf.gov / login:public (2/94).

U.S. Department of Energy Gopher: Provides a gateway to a variety
of Department of Energy Gopher servers. Path: gopher
vm1.hqadmin.doe.gov (2/94).

                            Aerospace
                              _____

Center for Aerospace Information: NASA system provides access to
the full text of Selected Current Aerospace Notices (SCAN) and a
database that lists the holdings of 15 NASA-affiliated libraries.
Path: gopher gopher.casi.nasa.gov (2/94).

EnviroNET -- The Space Science Information Service: Provides
access to a database containing information about natural and
induced space environments, the full text of a handbook of
spacecraft environmental anomalies and more. Path: telnet
envnet.gsfc.nasa.gov / login:envnet / password:henniker (2/94).

Goddard Space Flight Center Gopher: System still being developed
provides access to Goddard news summaries, library catalogs,
network information and more. Path: gopher gopher.gsfc.nasa.gov
(2/94). Path: telnet gopher.gsfc.nasa.gov / login:gopher (2/94).

Johnson Space Center Gopher: Provides access to an archive of
NASA press release photos, an archive of downloadable software
and links to other NASA Internet sites. Path: gopher
krakatoa.jsc.nasa.gov (2/94).

Langley Research Center Technical Reports: Provides abstracts and
the full text of NASA Technical Reports issued since 1989. Path:
ftp techreports.larc.nasa.gov / user:anonymous / password:e-mail
address / cd pub/techreports/larc (2/94).

Lewis Research Center Gopher: NASA system still being developed
so far provides access to center phone books and gateways to
other network resources. Path: gopher gopher.lerc.nasa.gov
(2/94).

Magellan Images: Jet Propulsion Laboratory archive of images
collected by the Magellan spacecraft, associated indexes and
documentation. Path: ftp wuarchive.wustl.edu / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address / cd graphics/magellan (2/94).

NASA Gopher: Provides access to space shuttle schedules, Mars
Observer mission reports, NASA news releases, agency phone books,
searchable databases and more. Path: gopher naic.nasa.gov / nasa
resources (2/94). Path: telnet naic.nasa.gov / login:naic / nasa
resources (2/94).

NASA Network Information Center Gopher: Provides one-stop access
to information centers at more than a dozen NASA centers. Path:
gopher naic.nasa.gov / nasa center nic information (2/94). Path:
telnet naic.nasa.gov / login:naic / nasa center nic information
(2/94).

NASA News: Provides a daily summary of noteworthy developments at
NASA. Path: finger nasanews@space.mit.edu (2/94).

NASA Scientific and Technical Information Program: Provides the
full text of Select Current Aerospace Notices (SCAN), aerospace
bibliographies, miscellaneous technical papers, access to NASA
phone books and more. Path: gopher gopher.sti.nasa.gov (2/94).

National Space Science Data Center: NASA database provides access
to a catalog of space science data held by research centers
worldwide, as well as other information about astrophysics, space
physics, planetary sciences, earth sciences and the life
sciences. Path: telnet nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov / username:nodis
(2/94).

Small Shuttle Payloads Project Gopher: NASA system provides an
introduction to the Small Shuttle Payloads Project, full text of
project documents, downloadable software and shuttle images, and
more. Path: gopher vx740.gsfc.nasa.gov / nasa shuttle payload
info (2/94).

Spacelink: NASA system provides access to agency news releases,
shuttle status reports, mission summaries, NASA congressional
testimony and speeches, and many other files with current and
historical information about NASA aeronautics and space research.
Even allows users to ask NASA scientists questions. Path: telnet
spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov / username:newuser / password:newuser
(2/94).

                           Agriculture
                             _______

Agricultural Genome Gopher: National Agricultural Library system
provides genome information about agriculturally important plants
and animals. Searchable by keyword. Path: gopher
probe.nalusda.gov (2/94).

Agricultural Information: U.S. Department of Agriculture system
provides access to agricultural statistics, agency directories,
information about government assistance programs, full text of
research reports and more. Path: gopher esusda.gov / usda and
other federal agency information / usda (2/94).

Agricultural Library Forum (ALF): National Agricultural Library
bulletin board system provides access to bibliographies,
agricultural directories, publications lists, an agricultural
calendar and more. Path: telnet fedworld.gov / gateway system /
connect to gov't sys / 2 (2/94).

Agricultural Research Service Reports: Full text of summaries of
the initial results of Agricultural Research Service-funded
research. Path: gopher esusda.gov / usda and other federal agency
information / usda (2/94).

Cooperative Extension System Gopher: U.S. Department of
Agriculture system provides access to extension service
directories, fact sheets, calendars, nutritional data,
information about national initiatives related to agriculture,
natural disaster information and more. Path: gopher esusda.gov
(2/94).

Dendrome Database: Collection of forest tree genome databases
developed by the Institute of Forest Genetics and funded by the
Agricultural Research Service. Path: gopher s27w007.pswfs.gov
(2/94).

Economic Research Service Gopher: USDA system provides
announcements of ERS Economic Research Reports and summaries of
Situation and Outlook Reports. Path: gopher esusda.gov / usda and
other federal agency information / usda (2/94).

National Genetic Resources Program: Agricultural Research Service
system provides germplasm information about plants, animals,
microbes and insects. Path: gopher gopher.ars-grin.gov (2/94).

PENpages: Pennsylvania State University system provides the full
text of thousands of documents about agriculture, food and
nutrition, family issues and more. Path: telnet psupen.psu.edu /
username:penpages (2/94). Path: gopher info.psu.edu / information
servers at penn state / penn state penpages / username:penpages
(2/94).

U.S. Department of Agriculture Economics and Statistics Gopher:
USDA-Cornell University system provides access to statistics on a
wide variety of agricultural topics -- consumer food spending,
milk and dairy sales, ozone levels, meat consumption, fertilizer
use and more. Most data can be downloaded in Lotus 1-2-3 format.
Path: gopher usda.mannlib.cornell.edu (2/94). Path: telnet
usda.mannlib.cornell.edu / login:usda (2/94).

                            Astronomy
                              _____

Gazetteer of Planetary Nomenclature: U.S. Geological Survey
system provides keyword access to a database of planetary place
names that have been approved by the International Astronomical
Union. Path: telnet lpi.jsc.nasa.gov / username:lpi / information
and research / reference files (2/94).

Index to Planetary Maps: U.S. Geological Survey index of
planetary maps. Path: telnet lpi.jsc.nasa.gov / username:lpi /
information and research services / special indexes (2/94).

Lunar and Planetary Institute Gopher: Provides access to the
online library catalog of NASA's Lunar and Planetary Institute, a
bibliography of scientific literature about space exploration,
images collected by NASA spacecraft, information about planetary
science meetings, full text of the Lunar and Planetary
Information Bulletin and more. Path: telnet lpi.jsc.nasa.gov /
username:lpi (2/94).

Mars Exploration Bulletin Board: Provides current information
about NASA's plans for the exploration of Mars. Path: telnet
lpi.jsc.nasa.gov / username:lpi / mars exploration bulletin board
(2/94).

NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database (NED): Provides access to a
master list of extragalactic objects, including relevant
bibliographic references, and abstracts of journal articles about
extragalactic subjects. Path: telnet ned.ipac.caltech.edu /
login:ned (2/94).

Planetary Data System (PDS): Jet Propulsion Laboratory database
provides descriptions of more than 90 planetary data sets
available from a variety of NASA sources. The system also allows
users to order data online. Path: telnet jpl-pds.jpl.nasa.gov /
login:pds_guest (2/94).

Space Environment Services Center Clearinghouse: National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration system provides solar and
geophysical activity reports and forecasts, solar region
summaries, coronal hole reports and more. Path: telnet
132.163.224.10 / username:sel (2/94).

Space Telescope Electronic Information System (STEIS): Space
Telescope Science Institute system provides a variety of
information about the Hubble Space Telescope, a series of space
science electronic picture books, links to other Internet
resources for astronomy and more. Files can be searched by
keyword. Path: gopher stsci.edu (2/94).

                             Biology
                               ___

American Type Culture Collection: Provides descriptions of
available culture strains, cell lines or recombinant materials.
Cultures can be ordered online. Path: gopher atcc.nih.gov / atcc
catalogs (2/94).

AVES: An archive of downloadable images of birds and related
information files. Path: gopher vitruvius.cecer.army.mil (2/94).

Endangered Species Act: Full text of the act, as taken from the
U.S. Code. Path: gopher sunny.stat-usa.gov / economic conversion
information exchange / adjustment programs and laws (2/94).

Genetic Sequence Data Bank: National Library of Medicine database
allows researchers to search a collection of nucleotide
sequences, as well as relevant bibliographic and biological
annotation. Path: gopher helix.nih.gov / molecular biology
databases (2/94).

National Center for Biotechnology Information: Archive of
biotechnology databases and associated software. Path: gopher
ncbi.nlm.nih.gov / repository (2/94). Path: ftp ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
/ user:anonymous / password:e-mail address / cd repository
(2/94).

Office of Life and Microgravity Sciences and Applications Gopher:
NASA system provides access to a variety of information about the
life sciences, microgravity sciences, gravitational biology,
biotechnology and space biomedical research. Path: gopher
gopher.olmsa.hq.nasa.gov (2/94).

Protein Data Bank: Brookhaven National Laboratory system provides
access to a searchable database of macromolecular structures.
Path: gopher pdb.pdb.bnl.gov (2/94).

Ribosomal Database Project: Provides access to a database of
ribosomal RNA sequences, software useful in manipulating the data
and more. Path: ftp info.mcs.anl.gov / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address / cd pub/RDP (2/94).

Smithsonian Institution Natural History Gopher: Provides access
to a variety of natural history resources, including the full
text of key biological reference works, indexes to the holdings
of major natural history collections, bibliographies of journal
literature, newsletters and more. Path: gopher nmnhgoph.si.edu
(2/94).

Transgenic Animal/Targeted Mutation Database (Tbase): Oak Ridge
National Laboratory system provides access to a catalog of
information about lines of animals that have been produced
worldwide by transgenic or targeted mutation methods. Path:
gopher gopher.ornl.gov / technical resources (2/94).

                            Chemistry
                              _____

Chemical Substance Fact Sheets: Full text of Environmental
Protection Agency fact sheets about hundreds of chemicals; can be
browsed or searched by keyword. Path: gopher
ecosys.drdr.virginia.edu / education / environmental fact sheets
/ epa chemical substance fact sheets (2/94).

Material Safety Data Sheets: Though not technically government
information, material safety data sheets are produced by chemical
manufacturers to comply with government regulations. They provide
safety data on hundreds of chemicals. Path: gopher
gaia.ucs.orst.edu / osu information and services / osu academic
departments and colleges / environmental health and safety
(2/94).

            Communications and Information Technology
                 _______________________________

Canadian Broadcasting Corporation Gopher: Provides access to the
audio of select news and feature radio programs in digital form,
lists of CBC radio products, information about transcripts
available from the CBC and more. Path: gopher debra.dgbt.doc.ca /
cbc radio trial (2/94).

Communications Canada Gopher: Full text of Canadian government
news releases and fact sheets about communications policy and
developments in communications technology. Path: gopher
debra.dgbt.doc.ca / industry canada documents (2/94).

Federal Communications Commission Online Archive: FCC system
still being developed is expected to provide access to the full
text of the FCC Daily Digest, press releases, public notices,
speeches and other information. Path: ftp ftp.fcc.gov /
user:anonymous / password:e-mail address / cd pub (2/94).

Federal Information News Syndicate InfoAge Library: Full text of
key legislation, speeches and other documents relating to federal
information policy. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational
resources / computers and society / public information (2/94).
Path: telnet info.umd.edu / educational resources / computers and
society (2/94).

High Performance Computing and Communications -- Toward a
National Information Infrastructure: Full text of the federal
government's report on creating a National Information
Infrastructure. Path: gopher gopher.hpcc.gov / hpcc-toward a
national information infrastructure (2/94).

Information Infrastructure Task Force Gopher: Provides access to
task force directories, press releases, calendars, committee
reports as well as the full text of speeches, documents and
select legislation relevant to the National Information
Infrastructure. Path: gopher iitf.doc.gov (2/94).

International Telecommunications Union Information Exchange
Services: Provides access to a variety of ITU databases, the full
text of select ITU publications, and general information about
the organization, an agency of the United Nations. Path: gopher
info.itu.ch (2/94).

Making Government Work -- Electronic Delivery of Federal
Services: Full text of a Congressional Office of Technology
Assessment report about the use of computer and
telecommunications technology in the delivery of government
services. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans communicating
electronically / office of technology assessment (2/94).

National Coordination Office for High Performance Computing and
Communications (HPCC) Gopher: Provides access to the full text of
HPCC-NCO reports, fact sheets, related Congressional legislation
and testimony, grant and research information, policy papers and
more. Path: gopher gopher.hpcc.gov (2/94).

National Information Infrastructure Agenda: Full text of a
Clinton administration report describing the role of government
in promoting the development of the telecommunications and
information infrastructure by the private sector. Path: gopher
ace.esusda.gov / americans communicating electronically /
national policy issues (2/94).

State Telecommunications Legislation: Full text of a January 1994
summary of telecommunications legislation introduced in state
legislatures. Path: gopher world.std.com / membership and
professional associations / ccn - the center for civic networking
/ selected state telecom. legislation (2/94).

                        Computer Science
                           __________

Advanced Computing Laboratory (ACL) Gopher: Los Alamos National
Laboratory system provides information about computer
visualization, access to an archive of downloadable images,
laboratory directories and more. Path: gopher gopher.acl.lanl.gov
(2/94).

Argonne National Laboratory Mathematics and Computer Science
Division Gopher: Archive of software, computer tools, research
papers and more. Path: ftp info.mcs.anl.gov / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address (2/94).

Computer Law: Australian FTP archive includes a variety of files
containing information on computers and the law, including the
text of many U.S. state laws. Path: ftp sulaw.law.su.oz.au /
user:anonymous / password:e-mail address / cd pub/law (2/94).

COSLINE: Provides access to NASA's COSMIC database, which
provides descriptions of computer programs developed by the
agency. Path: telnet cosline.cosmic.uga.edu (2/94).

Forum on Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST): National
Institute of Standards and Technology forum provides a variety of
information about computer and network security. Path: gopher
csrc.nist.gov (2/94).

Macintosh Science and Technology Archive: Collection of Macintosh
computer software and information, maintained by the Naval
Research Laboratory. Path: ftp ra.nrl.navy.mil / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address / cd MacSciTech (2/94).

Merit Network Information Center: Michigan consortium provides
information about the Internet, NSFNet and MichNet, including
General Accounting Office reports, Office of Management and
Budget reports, National Research and Education Network (NREN)
activity, conference proceedings, newsletters, statistical
reports, policy statements, user's guides and more. Path: gopher
nic.merit.edu (2/94).

National Center for Supercomputer Applications FTP Archive:
Archive of public domain software for visualization and data
analysis. Path: ftp ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address (2/94).

National Center for Supercomputer Applications Gopher: Provides
information about center education programs, high performance
computing calendars and directories, and gateways to other
sources of computing information. Path: gopher
gopher.ncsa.uiuc.edu (2/94).

National Science Foundation MetaCenter Gopher: Provides
information about MetaCenter resources and services, full text of
select MetaCenter publications, abstracts of MetaCenter research
projects, grant application forms, a high performance computing
calendar and more. Path: gopher gopher.psc.edu (2/94).

Naval Research Laboratory Central Computer Facility Gopher:
Provides access to laboratory user's guides, newsletters, online
documentation, laboratory directives, an archive of postings to
laboratory electronic discussion groups and more. Path: gopher
ccfsun.nrl.navy.mil (2/94).

Oak Ridge National Laboratory Center for Computational Science
Gopher: Provides access to center directories and newsletters,
information about center research projects, descriptions of
center computer resources and more. Path: gopher
gopher.ccs.ornl.gov (2/94).

Systems and Software Technology: National Institute of Standards
and Technology system provides a variety of information about
systems and software technology. Path: gopher nemo.ncsl.nist.gov
(2/94).

                        Criminal Justice
                           __________

Bureau of Justice Statistics Documents: Full text of select U.S.
Bureau of Justice Statistics publications. Path: gopher
uacsc2.albany.edu / united nations justice network (2/94).

Criminal Justice Country Profiles: Full text of a series of U.N.
reports on crime and criminal justice in 123 countries. Most
include statistics. Path: gopher uacsc2.albany.edu / united
nations justice network / u.n. criminal justice country profiles
(2/94).

                     Economics and Business
                         ______________

Basic Guide to Exporting: Full text of a U.S. International Trade
Administration introduction to exporting. Path: gopher
umslvma.umsl.edu / the library / government information (2/94).

Budget of the United States Government: Full text of the proposed
federal budget for the 1995 fiscal year; can be searched by
keyword. Path: gopher sunsite.unc.edu / worlds of sunsite / us
and world politics / proposed budget (2/94). Path: telnet
sunsite.unc.edu / login:gopher / worlds of sunsite / us and world
politics / proposed budget (2/94).

Commerce Business Daily: Full text of the 10 most recent issues
of the Commerce Business Daily, a U.S. government publication
that announces invitations to bid on projects proposed by federal
agencies. Searchable by keyword. Path: gopher cns.cscns.com /
special-commerce business daily (2/94).

Consumer Price Index: Buffalo & Erie County Public Library system
provides Consumer Price Index figures for the years 1987 to 1992.
Path: telnet freenet.buffalo.edu / login:freeport / go govt
(2/94).

Consumer Price Index/Canada: Provides monthly and historical
summaries of the Computer Price Index for Canada. Path: gopher
provost-admin.uwaterloo.ca / operations analysis (2/94).

Country Reports on Economic Policy and Trade Practices: Full text
of detailed U.S. Department of State reports describing the
economic policy and trade practices of individual countries
around the world. Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the library /
government information (2/94).

EconData: University of Maryland archive of economic time series
statistics prepared by U.S. government agencies. Data must be
downloaded and reformatted. System provides downloading
instructions and tools. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational
resources / economic data (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu /
educational resources / economic data (2/94).

Economic Bulletin Board: Department of Commerce system provides
access to thousands of data files, more than 700 of them updated
daily. Includes information about current economic conditions,
economic indicators, employment, foreign trade, monetary matters
and more in 20 general subject areas. Path: telnet ebb.stat-
usa.gov / userid:guest (2/94). Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu
/ social sciences resources / economics (2/94). Path: telnet
una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social sciences resources /
economics (2/94).

Economic Development Information Network (EDIN): Pennsylvania
State Data Center system provides access to current and
historical U.S. Census data for Pennsylvania and the nation. Also
includes information about procurement opportunities, full text
of PSDC bulletins and press releases, a variety of business-
oriented directories and more. Path: telnet psuvm.psu.edu / press
Enter when userid is requested / ebb / edin (2/94). Path: gopher
info.psu.edu / information servers at penn state / edin / press
Enter when userid is requested / ebb / edin (2/94).

Economic Reports of the President: Full text of the 1992 and 1993
Economic Report of the President, a detailed report of the
administration's domestic and international economic policies
prepared by the Council of Economic Advisors. Path: gopher
umslvma.umsl.edu / the library / government information (2/94).

EDGAR: New York University system still being developed provides
access to financial reports issued by U.S. public companies and
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since the
beginning of 1994. Includes information for companies that file
reports electronically only. Path: gopher vaxvmsx.babson.edu /
business resources (2/94). Path: ftp town.hall.org /
user:anonymous / password:e-mail address / cd edgar (2/94).

EDGAR Index: Washburn University system provides Telnet access to
indexes of financial reports issued by U.S. public companies and
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since the
beginning of 1994. Reports can then be retrieved via FTP or
requested by e-mail from the town.hall.org FTP archive listed
above. Includes information for companies that file reports
electronically only. Path: telnet acc.wuacc.edu / login:washlaw /
federal government information (2/94).

Fair Credit Reporting Act: Full text of the act, as taken from
the U.S. Code. Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com / government docs
(2/94).

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston FTP Archive: Archive of banking,
employment, earnings, construction, housing and other economic
data for New England cities and states. Path: ftp
neeedc.umesbs.maine.edu / user:anonymous / password:pass (2/94).

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT): Full text of the
final version of GATT, incorporating agreements made at the
Uruguay round of negotiations. An executive summary written by
the U.S. trade representative is also available. Path: gopher
ace.esusda.gov / americans communicating electronically /
national policy issues (2/94).

Gross State Product Tables: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
tables estimating the value of goods and services for 61
industries in 50 states. Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu /
social sciences resources / economics (2/94). Path: telnet
una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social sciences resources /
economics (2/94).

Industry Profiles: Full text to a series of Small Business
Administration reports that describe the trends and opportunities
for small businesses in select industries. Path: gopher
umslvma.umsl.edu / the library / government information / small
business administration industry profiles (2/94).

International Business Practices: Full text of a Department of
Commerce reference work that provides overviews of import
regulations, free trade zones, foreign investment policy,
intellectual property rights, tax laws and more in 117 countries.
Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the library / government
information (2/94).

Labor News: Department of Labor bulletin board provides access to
labor statistics, daily news releases, OSHA information,
abstracts of articles in the Monthly Labor Review and more.
Path: telnet fedworld.gov / gateway system / connect to gov't sys
/ 26 (2/94).

LabStat: Bureau of Labor Statistics system provides access to
current and historical employment and unemployment data,
occupational injury and illness rates, consumer and producer
price index figures, as well as other labor and economic data.
Path: ftp stats.bls.gov / user:anonymous / password:e-mail
address / cd pub (2/94).

Louisiana State Contracts: Provides access to information about
active and pending Louisiana state contracts and a directory of
contract vendors. Searchable by keyword. Path: gopher
vm.cc.latech.edu / louisiana state contracts (2/94).

National Export Strategy: Full text of a report to Congress by
the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee outlining 60 actions
designed to strengthen U.S export promotion efforts. Path: ftp
sunny.stat-usa.gov / user:anonymous / password:e-mail address /
cd pub/export (2/94).

North American Free Trade Agreement: Full text of NAFTA and
related documents. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans
communicating electronically / national policy issues (2/94).
Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the library / government
information (2/94).

Occupational Outlook Handbook: Full text of a U.S. Department of
Labor annual that provides detailed information about more than
300 occupations, including the nature of the work, working
conditions, training and education requirements, job outlook,
average salaries and more. Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the
library / government information (2/94).

Overseas Business Reports: Full text of U.S. International Trade
Administration reports describing the economic and commercial
climate in individual countries around the world. Path: gopher
umslvma.umsl.edu / the library / government information (2/94).

Penn-World Tables: Provide comparisons of 27 economic indicators
for 150 countries for the years 1950 to 1990. Path: gopher
nber.harvard.edu (2/94).

President Clinton's Economic Plan: Full text of A Vision of
Change for America, a summary of the President's economic plan.
Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com / government docs / clinton's
economic plan (2/94).

Regional Economic Information System (REIS): Department of
Commerce system provides statistics on employment by industry,
income and earnings by industry, and transfer payments for states
and counties. Path: gopher sunny.stat-usa.gov / economic
conversion information / regional statistics (2/94).

State Small Business Profiles: Full text to a series of Small
Business Administration reports that provide statistical
overviews of the economy in each of the 50 states, focusing on
the small business sector. Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the
library / government information / small business administration
state profiles (2/94).

Texas Department of Commerce Gopher: Provides access to
demographic data about Texas counties, economic profiles of Texas
communities, information about Texas Department of Commerce
programs, lists of department publications and more. Path: gopher
gopher.tdoc.texas.gov (2/94).

Texas Marketplace: Texas Department of Commerce system provides
access to Texas business directories, demographic data, economic
development information, industry profiles, lists of procurement
opportunities and more. Nonsubscribers are limited in the amount
of information they can view or download. Path: telnet
texis.tdoc.texas.gov / login:guest / password:guest (2/94).

Uniform Commercial Code: Full text of the Uniform Commercial
Code. Can be browsed or searched by keyword. Path: telnet
www.law.cornell.edu 8260 / login:www (2/94).

U.S. Industrial Outlook: Department of Commerce annual reviews
recent trends and provides five-year projections for the top 350
industries. Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu / social sciences
resources / economics / industrial outlook (2/94). Path: telnet
una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social sciences resources /
economics / industrial outlook (2/94).

World Bank Public Information Service: Full text of World Bank
policy papers, environmental reports, project information
documents, country economic reports, publications catalogs and
more. Path: gopher gopher.worldbank.org (2/94).

                            Education
                              _____

AskERIC: Archive of education information compiled by AskERIC, an
Internet question-answering service for teachers and educators at
Syracuse University. Path: gopher ericir.syr.edu (2/94).

California State Department of Education Gopher: Provides access
to department directories, advisories, calendars, curriculum
information, legislative updates, budgetary data, news releases,
full text of select department publications and more. Path:
gopher goldmine.cde.ca.gov (2/94).

Center for Research on Evaluation, Standards and Student Testing
(CRESST) Gopher: UCLA system provides access to the full text of
CRESST newsletters, citations for CRESST technical reports, a
database of alternative tests and more. Files can be searched by
keyword. CRESST is a U.S. Department of Education-funded program.
Path: gopher spinoza.cse.ucla.edu / cresst (2/94).

Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC): Provides keyword
access to bibliographic information and abstracts for articles
and publications about education and related disciplines. Path:
gopher spc.syr.edu / local resources / eric database searches
(2/94). Path: telnet sklib.usask.ca / login:sonia / education
databases (2/94).

ERIC Clearinghouse on Assessment and Evaluation: Catholic
University of America system provides access to an ERIC-
Educational Testing Service archive of test descriptions, an
index to reviews of specific tests, the full text of ERIC digests
about measurement and assessment and more. Path: gopher
gopher.cua.edu / special resources (2/94).

Federal Information Exchange: Provides information about federal
education and research programs, scholarships, fellowships,
grants, minority education and research programs, procurement
opportunities and more. Path: telnet fedix.fie.com (2/94).

Higher Education Opportunities for Minorities and Women (HERO):
Provides information about scholarships, grants, fellowships,
research opportunities and more for minorities and women. Path:
telnet fedix.fie.com (2/94).

Institutional Communications Network (INET): U.S. Department of
Education system provides access to department directories, grant
information, statistics, educational software, information about
department programs, full text of department publications and
more. Path: gopher gopher.ed.gov (2/94).

International Education Bulletin Board: California State
University system provides a variety of information about
international education, including grant information, directories
of overseas higher education advising centers, a list of U.S.
embassies and consulates, the full text of bibliographies about
international education and more. Path: telnet nis.calstate.edu /
login:intl (2/94).

Minority College & University Capability Information (MOLIS):
Provides information about historically black colleges and
universities and hispanic-serving institutions, as well as data
about scholarships, fellowships, grants and other programs for
minorities. Path: telnet fedix.fie.com (2/94).

NASA K-12 Gopher: Provides access to a variety of resources in
the sciences for secondary school teachers and students,
including NASA's "Live From...Other Worlds." Path: gopher
quest.arc.nasa.gov (2/94).

National Center for Education Statistics Gopher: U.S. Department
of Education system provides a wealth of statistics about
education. Much of the data can be downloaded. Path: gopher
gopher.ed.gov / educational research, improvement and statistics
(2/94).

Newton: Bulletin board system for teachers and educators
maintained by Argonne National Laboratory. Path: telnet
newton.dep.anl.gov / login:bbs (2/94).

Oak Ridge National Laboratory Educational Gopher: Provides access
to information about ORNL educational programs, data about grant
and funding opportunities and more. Path: gopher
woonext.dsrd.ornl.gov (2/94).

Virginia's Public Education Network: Virginia Department of
Education system provides access to department policy papers,
directories, calendars, electronic discussion groups, the full
text of memos sent by the department to school superintendents, a
newsletter about education and more. Path: telnet
vdoe386.vak12ed.edu / login:guest / password:guest (2/94).

                     Environment and Ecology
                         _______________

Air Pollution Training Institute: Provides information about
courses offered by the institute, which is funded by the
Environmental Protection Agency. Path: telnet
ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / apti (2/94).

Ambient Monitoring Technology Information Center: EPA system
provides information and the full text of regulations concerning
ambient air quality monitoring. Path: telnet ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov
/ amtic (2/94).

Clean Air Act Amendments Bulletin Board System: EPA system
provides access to information relevant to 1990 Clean Air Act
Amendments, including full text of the act. Path: telnet
ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / caaa (2/94).

Clean Car Agenda Information: Provides information about a
September 1993 agreement between the U.S. government and the big
three auto makers to develop technologies necessary to enable
production of a vehicle that would be up to three times more fuel
efficient than today's cars. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov /
americans communicating electronically / nation policy issues
(2/94).

Clean Water Act: Full text of the act, as taken from the U.S.
Code. Path: gopher sunny.stat-usa.gov / economic conversion
information exchange / adjustment programs and laws (2/94).

Clearinghouse for Inventories/Emission Factors (CHIEF): EPA
system provides information about air emission inventories and
emission factors, and provides access to tools for estimating
emissions of air pollutants and performing air emission
inventories. Path: telnet ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / chief (2/94).

Climate Change Action Plan: Full text of a report explaining
President Clinton's $1.9-billion plan for reducing U.S.
greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000. Path:
gopher futures.wic.epa.gov / u.s. climate change action plan
(2/94).

COMPLI Bulletin Board System: EPA system provides access to
directories of registered asbestos contractors, certified
woodstove manufacturers, an archive of EPA determinations and a
variety of other information relevant to air quality regulation
compliance. Path: telnet ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / compli (2/94).

Control Technology Center Bulletin Board System: EPA system
provides a variety of information designed to assist state and
local air pollution control agencies. Also includes a discussion
group for air quality management officials. Path: telnet
ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / ctc (2/94).

Emission Measurement Technical Information Center: EPA system
provides information about emission test methods, emission
regulation enforcement and emission control programs. Path:
telnet ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / emtic (2/94).

Environmental Futures Gopher: EPA Future Studies Group system
provides the full text of President Clinton's Climate Change
Action Plan, an EPA report about sustainable development, a Rural
Development Institute paper about agriculture in the 21st Century
and a variety of other documents about the future of the
environment. Path: gopher futures.wic.epa.gov (2/94).

Environmental Protection Agency Gopher: EPA system provides
access to a directory of environmental information resources, a
database containing information about environmental regulations
governing the closure of military bases, proposed new rules for
the pulp and paper industry, pesticide regulatory information and
more. Path: gopher gopher.rtpnc.epa.gov (2/94).

Environmental Protection Agency Online Library System: Provides
access to the catalogs of EPA libraries; separate databases with
citations for sources about environmental financing, chemicals,
hazardous waste and lake management; and a directory of
government sources of environmental information. Path: telnet
epaibm.rtpnc.epa.gov / public / ols (2/94).

Environmental Services Data Directory: National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) catalog provides keyword access
to information about environmental data sets available from the
agency. Path: gopher esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / noaa environmental
services data directory (2/94). Path: telnet esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov
/ login:gopher / noaa environmental services data directory
(2/94).

Global Change Data and Information System: System still being
developed provides access to directories of participants in a
U.S. government global change program and links to information
from relevant U.S. and international organizations. Path: gopher
esdim2.esdim.noaa.gov (2/94).

Great Lakes Information Network: Provides information about
environmental and economic development issues concerning the
eight states that are members of the Great Lakes Commission.
Path: gopher gopher.cic.net / cicnet projects and gopher servers
/ glin (2/94).

Great Lakes National Program Gopher: EPA system provides access
to the full text of select program documents, a list of Great
Lakes pollutants, a Great Lakes risk study, an archive of
computer software for environmental awareness and more. Path:
gopher glnpogis2.r05.epa.gov (2/94).

Long-Term Ecological Research Network: System maintained by a
National Science Foundation-sponsored program provides access to
a catalog of available ecological data sets, a bibliography of
network research reports, network directories and newsletters,
meeting information and more. Path: gopher lternet.washington.edu
(2/94).

National Air Toxics Information Clearinghouse: EPA system
provides access to a directory of government air toxics control
officials, descriptions of regulatory programs, emissions
guidelines and inventory data, and more. Path: telnet
ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / natich (2/94).

National Environmental Data Referral Service (NEDRES): National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) system provides
keyword access to information about environmental data sets
available from federal, state, private, public and academic
organizations. Path: gopher esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / noaa national
environmental data referral service (2/94). Path: telnet
esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / login:gopher / noaa national environmental
data referral service (2/94).

National Environmental Scorecard: League of Conservation Voters'
system provides the full text of a series of reports analyzing
the voting records of members of Congress on key environmental
issues. Path: gopher gopher.econet.apc.org (2/94).

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Gopher:
Provides access to searchable catalogs describing environmental
data sets available nationwide and links to a variety of other
NOAA systems. Path: gopher esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov (2/94). Path:
telnet esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / login:gopher (2/94).

Oak Ridge National Laboratory Environmental Sciences Division
(ESD) Gopher: Provides access to division directories, seminar
and meeting announcements, full text of the ESD Newsletter and
more. Path: gopher jupiter.esd.ornl.gov (2/94).

Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Bulletin Board
System: EPA system provides access to a directory of agency
services, organizational information and the full text of the
Status Book on Air Pollution Control Activities. Path: telnet
ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / oaqps (2/94).

Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Technology Transfer
Network (TTN): Gateway to a variety of EPA bulletin board systems
that provide information relevant to the regulation and control
of air pollution. Path: telnet ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov (2/94).

Resource Conservation and Recovery Act: Full text of the act, as
taken from the U.S. Code. Path: gopher sunny.stat-usa.gov /
economic conversion information exchange / adjustment programs
and laws (2/94).

Support Center for Regulatory Air Models (SCRAM): EPA system
provides access to computer code for regulatory air quality
models, meteorological data sets and a variety of general
information about air quality modeling. Path: telnet
ttnbbs.rtpnc.epa.gov / scram (2/94).

U.N. Conference on Environment & Development Documents: Full text
of a broad range of documents pertaining to the June 1992 Rio de
Janeiro conference. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational
resources / international / united nations / environment
conference (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu / educational
resources / international / united nations / environment
conference (2/94). Path: nywork1.undp.org (2/94).

                            Geography
                              _____

Background Notes: Full text to a series of U.S. Department of
State reports that provide brief overviews of the people,
history, government, economy and foreign relations of individual
countries around the world. Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the
library / government information (2/94).

Country Studies / Area Handbooks: Full text of select Army Area
Handbooks, such as Japan: A Country Study, which present in-depth
overviews of the political, economic and social conditions of
countries around the world. Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the
library / government information / army area handbooks (2/94).

Geographic Names Database: Provides geographic coordinates,
county and state location, elevation, population, zip code and
more for thousands of places listed on U.S. Geological Survey
maps. Can be searched by place name or zip code. Path: gopher
gopher.micro.umn.edu / libraries / reference works / u.s.
geographic names database (2/94). Path: telnet
martini.eecs.umich.edu 3000 / enter city, state for which
information is sought (2/94).

Michigan County Profiles: Michigan Department of Commerce
database provides detailed statistical portraits of each of
Michigan's 83 counties. Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu /
social sciences resources / economics (2/94). Path: telnet
una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social sciences resources /
economics (2/94).

National Mapping Division Technical Instructions: Archive of
retrievable cartographic software and associated technical
documentation for use with National Mapping Division cartographic
data. System also provides the full text of select cartographic
standards. Path: ftp nmdpow9.er.usgs.gov / user:anonymous /
password:guest / cd public (2/94).

State Department Travel Advisories: Full text to a series of U.S.
Department of State reports that provide travel information and
travel advisories for countries around the world. Arranged by
country, files include current conditions, country descriptions,
entry requirements, embassy and consulate locations, information
about registration, medical facilities, drug penalties, crime and
more. Path: gopher gopher.stolaf.edu / internet resources / us-
state-department-travel-advisories (2/94).

U.S. Geological Survey Spatial Data: USGS archive of digital
spatial data and related indexes. Path: ftp
dis2qvarsa.er.usgs.gov / user:anonymous / password:e-mail address
(2/94).

World Factbook: Full text of a Central Intelligence Agency-
produced annual that provides information about the geography,
people, government, economy, communications and defense of
countries around the world. Path: gopher umslvma.umsl.edu / the
library / government information / cia world factbook (2/94).

                   Geology and Earth Sciences
                       __________________

Atlantic Marine Geology Gopher: System maintained by the U.S.
Geological Survey's Woods Hole, Mass., office provides access to
a variety of marine geology information and data files. Path:
gopher bramble.er.usgs.gov (2/94).

California Emergency Digital Information Service (EDIS): Provides
access to bulletins about California earthquakes, floods, fires
and other natural disasters. Path: telnet 134.186.127.1 5501
(2/94).

Earth Science Data Directory: U.S. Geological Survey system
provides keyword access to information about sources of earth
science data worldwide. Path: gopher scilibx.ucsc.edu / the
researcher / science and engineering / earth and marine sciences
/ usgs earth science data directory (2/94).

Earthquake Information: Provides data about recent earthquakes
worldwide. Path: gopher gopher.stolaf.edu / internet resources /
weather and geography (2/94).

Energy Information Administration Electronic Publishing System:
Department of Energy bulletin board system provides access to
energy statistics, oil & gas reports, petroleum import data,
department press releases, publications lists and more. Path:
telnet fedworld.gov / gateway system / connect to gov't sys / 16
(2/94).

Global Land Information System: U.S. Geological Survey system
provides descriptions of data sets and information about the
earth's land surfaces available from the U.S. government and
other agencies. Data sets can be ordered online. Path: telnet
glis.cr.usgs.gov / login:guest (2/94).

National Geophysical Data Center: Provides access to center
directories, descriptions of available data sets, and a variety
of other information about paleoclimatology, geology, geophysics,
snow and ice studies, terrestrial physics and more. Path: gopher
gopher.ngdc.noaa.gov (2/94).

National Information Service for Earthquake Engineering (NISEE):
Earthquake Engineering Research Center system provides a variety
of government and non-government produced information about
earthquake engineering, hazard mitigation, disaster response and
related disciplines. Path: gopher nisee.ce.berkeley.edu (2/94).

National Oceanographic Data Center Gopher: System still being
developed is expected to offer access to center directories,
lists of center data products, full text of center publications
and more. Path: gopher ariel.nodc.noaa.gov (2/94).

Natural Resources Canada Gopher: Provides access to agency
directories, statistical information, library catalogs and the
full text of a variety of publications about the earth sciences
from agencies of Natural Resources Canada, a Canadian government
department. Path: gopher gopher.emr.ca / nrcan-info (2/94).

Oklahoma Geological Survey Gopher: Provides access to a catalog
of Oklahoma earthquakes, an archive of downloadable seismograms,
lists of worldwide nuclear tests, full text of select nuclear
testing treaties and more. Path: gopher wealaka.okgeosurvey1.gov
(2/94).

Online Satellite Catalog Access and Request System (OSCAR):
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration database provides
descriptions of available digital satellite data. Data can be
ordered online. Path: telnet 140.90.110.5 / login:oscar (2/94).

Selected Water Resources Abstracts: Database maintained by the
U.S. Geological Survey's Water Resources Scientific Information
Center provides keyword access to abstracts of articles and other
literature about water resources. Path: gopher gopher.c-
wr.siu.edu / usgs wrsic research abstracts (2/94).

U.S. Bureau of Mines Bulletin Board Network: Provides access to
Bureau of Mines bulletins, tip sheets, publication lists,
minerals commodity data and more. Path: telnet fedworld.gov /
gateway system / connect to gov't sys / 4 (2/94).

U.S. Geological Survey Gopher: Provides descriptions of the
agency, its publications and data as well as a variety of
information about geology, hydrology, cartography and geographic
information systems. Path: gopher info.er.usgs.gov (2/94).

U.S. Geological Survey Online Library Catalog: Provides access to
the USGS library catalog. Path: telnet library.er.usgs.gov /
press return key when connected / PW:GSL / PW ID:LS2K / press
return (2/94).

Universities Water Information Network: U.S. Geological Survey-
funded system provides access to a directory of water resources
experts, files from the National Institutes for Water Resources,
the Selected Water Resources Abstracts index and more. Path:
gopher gopher.c-wr.siu.edu (2/94).

Weekly Seismicity Reports: Full text of a weekly overview of
earthquake activity around the world. Path: gopher
somalia.earth.nwu.edu / seismology resources / usgs weekly
seismicity reports (2/94).

                       Health and Medicine
                          _____________

AIDS Related Information: National Institutes of Health database
provides AIDS statistics, daily summaries of articles about AIDS
in major newspapers, full text of AIDS Treatment News, reports
from the National Commission on AIDS, pamphlets about AIDS and
more. Path: gopher gopher.niaid.nih.gov / aids related
information (2/94).

CancerNet: Full text of National Cancer Institute fact sheets,
publications about cancer, patient diagnosis statements and more.
Path: gopher helix.nih.gov / health and clinical information /
cancernet information (2/94).

Comprehensive Epidemiologic Data Resource (CEDR): Full text of a
Department of Energy catalog of data about epidemiologic studies
conducted on workers at DOE facilities. Updated more frequently
than the printed version. Path: gopher cedr.lbl.gov (2/94).

Environment, Safety and Health Technical Information Service:
Department of Energy Office of Environment, Safety and Health
system provides the full text of agency notices and orders,
environmental guidance memos, miscellaneous publications, OSHA
regulations and more. Path: gopher dewey.tis.inel.gov 2010
(2/94).

Food and Drug Administration Bulletin Board System: Full text of
FDA news releases, enforcement reports, import alerts, drug and
product approval lists, Federal Register summaries, agency
publications, articles from FDA Consumer and more. Path: telnet
fdabbs.fda.gov / login:bbs (2/94).

Food Labeling Information: FDA database provides information
about new food labeling regulations and activities related to the
Nutrition Labeling and Education Act. Path: gopher
zeus.esusda.gov / usda and other federal agency information /
food labeling information (2/94).

Health Care Reform Information: Full text of the Clinton
administration's health care reform proposal, a detailed section-
by-section explanation of the Clinton plan, along with related
reports and press releases. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov /
americans communicating electronically / national policy issues /
health care reform agenda (2/94).

Health Security Act of 1993: Full text of the Clinton
administration's health reform proposal and related documents.
Act can be browsed or searched by keyword. Path: gopher
sunsite.unc.edu / worlds of sunsite / us and world politics /
national health security plan (2/94). Path: telnet
sunsite.unc.edu / login:gopher / worlds of sunsite / us and world
politics / national health security plan (2/94).

Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report: Full text of the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention weekly journal, available long
before libraries receive the paper edition. Path: gopher
gopher.niaid.nih.gov / aids related information (2/94).

National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease Gopher:
Provides access to the full text of institute press releases,
AIDS information publications, institute directories and more.
Path: gopher gopher.niaid.nih.gov (2/94).

National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences Gopher:
Provides access to information about institute research programs,
full text of institute bibliographies, an index to the journal
Environmental Health Perspectives, the NIEHS library catalog and
more. Path: gopher gopher.niehs.nih.gov (2/94).

National Institute of Mental Health Gopher: System still being
developed contains little unique information so far, but provides
links to other National Institutes of Health systems. Path:
gopher gopher.nimh.nih.gov (2/94).

National Institutes of Health Gopher: Provides access to a broad
range of NIH resources, including institute telephone books and
calendars, library catalogs, molecular biology databases, full
text of the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, files containing
AIDS and cancer information and more. Path: gopher gopher.nih.gov
(2/94).

National Library of Medicine Gopher: Provides access to library
catalogs and databases, the full text of library fact sheets and
bibliographies and more. Path: gopher gopher.nlm.nih.gov (2/94).

National Toxicology Program Gopher: Provides access to a
searchable database containing the status of program studies,
abstracts of program reports, the full text of select reports and
more. Path: gopher gopher.niehs.nih.gov (2/94).

Occupational Safety and Health Administration Regulations: Full
text of current OSHA standards and regulations, as taken from the
Federal Register and Code of Federal Regulations. Path: gopher
stellate.health.ufl.edu / osha (1/94).

TOXNET: National Library of Medicine system still being developed
provides access to a database with information about the
toxicology of hazardous chemicals. The system in the future is
expected to provide access to a variety of other databases,
including the Toxic Chemical Release Inventory (TRI), the
Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances (RTECS) and the
Chemical Carcinogenesis Research Information System (CCRIS).
Path: gopher tox.nlm.nih.gov (2/94).

World Health Organization Gopher: Provides access to world health
statistics, WHO press releases, full text of selected WHO
publications and more. Path: gopher gopher.who.ch (2/94).

                             History
                               ___

Center for Electronic Records Archive: National Archives and
Records Administration system provides access to lists of data
files held by the National Archives and Records Administration.
Path: ftp ftp.cu.nih.gov / user:anonymous / password:guest / cd
nara_electronic (2/94).

Historical Documents: Full text of dozens of historic government
documents from the time of independence to the present day. Path:
gopher dewey.lib.ncsu.edu / ncsu's library without walls / study
carrels / history (2/94). Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com /
government docs / us historical documents (2/94). Path: gopher
fatty.law.cornell.edu / foreign and international law (2/94).

National Historic Preservation Act: Full text of the act, as
taken from the U.S. Code. Path: gopher sunny.stat-usa.gov /
economic conversion information exchange / adjustment programs
and laws (2/94).

National Register of Historic Places, Regulations: Full text of
U.S. government regulations about historic places, as taken from
the Code of Federal Regulations. Path: gopher sunny.stat-usa.gov
/ economic conversion information exchange / adjustment programs
and laws (2/94).

Smithsonian Institution Photographs: Archive of photographs from
the Smithsonian's Office of Printing & Photographic Services,
available as electronic images. Path: ftp photo1.si.edu /
user:anonymous / password:e-mail address (2/94).

Speeches and Addresses: Full text of historic U.S. speeches.
Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com / government docs / us speeches
and addresses (2/94).

                      Intellectual Property
                          _____________

Copyright Act of 1976: Full text of the Copyright Act, as amended
and taken from the U.S. Code. Can be browsed or searched by
keyword. Path: telnet www.law.cornell.edu 8210 / login:www
(2/94).

Copyright Information: Library of Congress system enables users
to search a database of information about works registered in the
U.S. Copyright Office since 1978. Also includes files that
provide general information about copyright. Path: telnet
locis.loc.gov (2/94).

Internet Patent News Service: List of all U.S. patents issued
during the previous week, available by free subscription via e-
mail. Path: send e-mail message to patents@world.std.com for
information (1/94).

Patent Act: Full text of the Patent Act, as amended and taken
from the U.S. Code. Can be browsed or searched by keyword. Path:
telnet www.law.cornell.edu 8220 / login:www (2/94).

Patent and Trademark Office Bulletin Board System: Provides
access to Official Gazette notices, information about new
patents, patent and trademark fee schedules, agency directories,
full text of PTO news bulletins, press releases, brochures and
more. Path: telnet fedworld.gov / gateway system / connect to
gov't sys / 116 (2/94).

Patent Office Reform Panel Final Report: Full text of a U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office report recommending that U.S. patent
procedures be changed to follow policy held by most
industrialized nations. Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com /
government docs (2/94).

Trademark Act of 1946: Full text of the Lanham Act, as amended
and taken from the U.S. Code. Can be browsed or searched by
keyword. Path: telnet www.law.cornell.edu 8230 / login:www
(2/94).

                   Mathematics and Statistics
                       __________________

Guide to Available Mathematical Software (GAMS): National
Institute of Standards and Technology index of available
mathematical and statistical software. Also provides links to a
other network software archives. Path: telnet gams.nist.gov /
login:gams (2/94).

                            Military
                              ____

Economic Conversion Information Exchange: Department of Commerce
system provides access to a variety of reports, laws and
statistics designed to ease the transition for military bases
designated for closure or realignment, and to help city and state
governments respond to the impact of conversion. Path: gopher
sunny.stat-usa.gov (2/94).

Naval Ocean System Center Gopher: System still being developed
provides access to a center telephone directory, but so far
little other information useful to non-center personnel. Path:
gopher gopher.nosc.mil (2/94).

Naval Research Laboratory Gopher: Provides access to an archive
of postings to a variety of Naval Research Laboratory electronic
discussion groups. Path: gopher ra.nrl.navy.mil (2/94).

NavNews: Full text of the Navy News Service, distributed weekly
to Navy operations worldwide. Provides official news and
information about fleet operations and exercises, Navy policy,
budget actions and more. Path: gopher marvel.loc.gov / federal
government information / federal information resources /
information by agency / military agencies (2/94). Path: telnet
marvel.loc.gov / login:marvel / federal government information /
federal information resources / information by agency / military
agencies (2/94).

Navy Policy Book: Full text of the Navy policy manual, which
provides official statements about the Navy mission, objectives
and policy. Path: gopher marvel.loc.gov / federal government
information / federal information resources / information by
agency / military agencies (2/94). Path: telnet marvel.loc.gov /
login:marvel / federal government information / federal
information resources / information by agency / military agencies
(2/94).

U.S. Military Academy Gopher: Provides information about academy
education programs, library resources, and gateways to a variety
of other systems. Path: gopher euler.math.usma.edu (2/94).

                             Physics
                               ___

Catalog of Known Nuclear Explosions: List of known nuclear tests
conducted worldwide since 1945. Path: gopher
wealaka.okgeosurvey1.gov (2/94).

High Energy Astrophysics Science Archival Research Center:
Provides Gopher access to an FTP archive maintained by the
Goddard Space Flight Center's High Energy Astrophysics Archival
Research Center. Path: gopher legacy.gsfc.nasa.gov (2/94).

Los Alamos National Laboratory Gopher: Provides access to
laboratory directories, library catalogs, computing information,
software archives and more. Path: gopher gopher.lanl.gov (2/94).

National Nuclear Data Center: Provides access to a variety of
nuclear physics databases maintained by Brookhaven National
Laboratory. Path: telnet bnlnd2.dne.bnl.gov / login:nndc (2/94).

Nonlinear Science Information Service: Los Alamos National
Laboratory system provides access to preprints of research
reports about chaos and dynamical systems, pattern formation and
solitons, adaption and self-organizing systems, computational
methods and more. Path: gopher xyz.lanl.gov (2/94).

Nuclear Safety Gopher: U.S. Department of Energy system still
being developed provides the full text of the Office of Nuclear
Safety Newsletter. Additional information is expected to be
available in the future. Path: gopher.ns.doe.gov (2/94).

Nuclear Testing Treaties: Provides the full text of a variety of
treaties related to nuclear testing. Path: gopher
wealaka.okgeosurvey1.gov (2/94).

Physics Information Service: Los Alamos National Laboratory
system provides the full text to preprints of reports about
nuclear and high energy physics. Path: gopher mentor.lanl.gov
(2/94).

T2 Nuclear Information Center: Los Alamos National Laboratory
system provides a variety of information about nuclear theory and
applications. Path: gopher t2.lanl.gov (2/94).

              Political Science, Law and Government
                             Federal
                     _______________________

Campaign '92 and Election Results: Full text of key position
papers, speeches, press releases and other documents from major
candidates in the 1992 presidential election. Path: gopher
tamuts.tamu.edu / browse information by subject / political
science (2/94).

CapAcess Federal Government Center: Washington D.C.-area bulletin
board system provides access to a variety of U.S. government
information -- General Accounting Office reports, Office of
Technology Assessment studies, Congressional resources and more.
Path: telnet cap.gwu.edu / login:guest / password:visitor / go
federal (2/94).

Citizens Guide on Using the Freedom of Information Act: Full text
of a popular government guide to obtaining information using the
Freedom of Information Act. Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com /
government docs / citizens guide to using the FOIA (2/94).

Code of Federal Regulations: Commercial systems allows users to
browse the Code of Federal Regulations or search it by keyword.
Access to the complete CFR is not yet available. The system
places limits on the amount of information non-subscribers can
retrieve. Path: gopher gopher.internet.com / counterpoint
publishing (2/94). Path: telnet gopher.internet.com /
login:gopher / counterpoint publishing (2/94).

Congressional Committee Assignments: Provides current
Congressional committee rosters. Can be browsed or searched by
keyword. Path: gopher.lib.umich.edu / social sciences resources /
government and politics / u.s. government resources: legislative
branch / us congress: committee assignments (2/94). Path: telnet
una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social sciences resources /
government and politics / u.s. government resources: legislative
branch / us congress: committee assignments (2/94).

Congressional Directories: Library of Congress system provides
access to a variety of Congressional directories. Some can be
searched by keyword. Path: gopher marvel.loc.gov / u.s. congress
/ congressional directories (2/94). Path: telnet marvel.loc.gov /
login:marvel / u.s. congress / congressional directories (2/94).

Congressional Firsts: List of firsts for the 103rd Congress.
Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational resources / united states
/ government / congress / 103rd-firsts (2/94). Path: telnet
info.umd.edu / educational resources / united states / government
/ congress / 103rd-firsts (2/94).

Congressional Information: Provides access to Congressional
directories, committee rosters, North American Free Trade
Agreement documents, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
U.S. budget and more. Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu / social
sciences resources / government and politics / u.s. government
resources: legislative branch (2/94). Path: telnet
una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social sciences resources /
government and politics / u.s. government resources: legislative
branch (2/94).

Congressional Information: Provides access to Congressional and
agency directories, biographies, lists of Congressional firsts,
information about women in Congress and more. Path: gopher
info.umd.edu / educational resources / united states / government
/ congress (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu / educational
resources / united states / government / congress (2/94).

Congressional Legislation: Library of Congress system allows
users to search files that describe and track legislation
introduced in the U.S. Congress from 1973 to present. Updated
daily. Path: telnet locis.loc.gov / federal legislation (2/94).

Congressional Research Service Abstracts: Provides access to
abstracts of reports prepared by the Congressional Research
Service of the Library of Congress. Path: telnet cap.gwu.edu /
login:guest / password:visitor / go federal / legislative branch
information (2/94).

Embassies and Consulates: Provides access to a directory of U.S.
embassies and consulates. Path: telnet nis.calstate.edu /
login:intl / us government programs and information / us overseas
embassies and consulates (2/94).

Executive Branch Resources: Provides access to U.S. executive
branch directories, White House information, NAFTA documents,
full text of the U.S. budget and more. Path: gopher
gopher.lib.umich.edu / social sciences resources / government and
politics / u.s. government resources: executive branch (2/94).
Path: telnet una.hh.lib.umich.edu / login:gopher / social
sciences resources / government and politics / u.s. government
resources: executive branch (2/94).

Federal Register: Commercial system allows users to browse or
search the daily Federal Register. System places limits on the
amount of information non-subscribers can retrieve. Path: gopher
gopher.internet.com / counterpoint publishing / united states
federal register (2/94). Path: telnet gopher.internet.com /
login:gopher / counterpoint publishing / united states federal
register (2/94).

GAO DayBook: Lists reports and testimony issued each day by the
General Accounting Office, Congress' watchdog agency. Path:
telnet cap.gwu.edu / login:guest / password:visitor / go gao
(2/94).

General Accounting Office Reports: Full text of select GAO high
risk, technical, transition and other reports. Path: gopher
info.umd.edu / educational resources / united states / government
/ national issues / gao (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu /
educational resources / united states / government / national
issues / gao (2/94). Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com / government
docs (2/94). Path: ftp ftp.cu.nih.gov / user:anonymous /
password:guest / cd gao-reports (2/94).

General Accounting Office Reports and Testimony: Full text of a
monthly summary of reports and testimony issued by the General
Accounting Office, Congress' watchdog agency. Path: telnet
cap.gwu.edu / login:guest / password:visitor / go gao / reports
and testimony (2/94).

National Performance Review (Reinventing Government): Full text
of From Red Tape to Results: Creating a Government that Works
Better and Costs Less, the 180-page report of Vice President Al
Gore's task force on reinventing government. Searchable by
keyword. Path: gopher sunsite.unc.edu / worlds of sunsite / us
and world politics (2/94). Path: telnet sunsite.unc.edu /
login:gopher / worlds of sunsite / us and world politics (2/94).

National Performance Review Information: Full text of the report
of Vice President Al Gore's task force on reinventing government,
related reports from the Office of Management and Budget and
General Accounting Office, plus other relevant information. Path:
gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans communicating electronically
(2/94).

Political Platforms: Full text of the platform statements from
major parties in the 1992 presidential election, along with other
major platform statements. Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com /
government docs (2/94).

Presidential Documents from the Federal Register: Full text of
presidential determinations, proclamations, executive orders and
other documents published in the Federal Register. Path: gopher
gopher.internet.com / counterpoint publishing / united states
federal register / selected agencies (2/94). Path: telnet
gopher.internet.com / login:gopher / counterpoint publishing /
united states federal register / selected agencies. (2/94).

Senate Bibliographies: Bibliographies of Senate hearings, prints
and publications for the 99th through the current Congresses.
Path: gopher dewey.lib.ncsu.edu / ncsu's library without walls /
study carrels / government and law / bibliography of senate
hearings (2/94). Path: ftp ftp.ncsu.edu / username:anonymous /
password:e-mail address / cd pub/ncsu/senate (2/94).

Senate Gopher: System still being developed so far includes
general information and press releases issued by Massachusetts
Sen. Edward Kennedy and Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens, the Republican
response to President Clinton's State of the Union address by
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole, and miscellaneous committee
information. Path: gopher ftp.senate.gov (2/94).

Speeches from the 1992 Presidential Campaign: Full text of major
speeches by Bill Clinton, George Bush and Libertarian Party
candidate Andre Marrou. Path: gopher bigcat.missouri.edu /
reference and information center (2/94).

Supreme Court Decisions: Full text of Supreme Court decisions
issued since 1989. Brief biographies of Court justices are also
available at some sites. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational
resources / united states (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu /
educational resources / united states (2/94). Path: telnet
www.law.cornell.edu 8240 / login:www (2/94). Path: telnet
freenet-in-c.cwru.edu / go court / supreme court opinions (2/94).
Path: ftp ftp.cwru.edu / user:anonymous / password:e-mail address
/ cd hermes (2/94).

U.S. Constitution: Full text of the U.S. constitution, including
amendments and articles. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational
resources / united states / government / constitution (2/94).
Path: telnet info.umd.edu / educational resources / united states
/ government / constitution (2/94).

U.S. Government Manual: Full text of the official handbook of the
federal government. Provides comprehensive information about
agencies in the legislative, judicial and executive branches.
Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu / social sciences resources /
government and politics (2/94). Path: telnet una.hh.lib.umich.edu
/ login:gopher / social sciences resources / government and
politics (2/94).

White House Electronic Publications and Public Access E-Mail --
Frequently Asked Questions: Provides information about how to
receive electronic publications from the White House via e-mail
and lists widely available electronic sources for White House
information. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans
communicating electronically / white house frequently asked
questions (2/94).

White House Information: Full text of major policy statements,
daily press briefings, speeches, proclamations, the president's
daily schedule and more. Path: gopher tamuts.tamu.edu / browse
information by subject / political science / information from the
white house (2/94). Path: gopher sunsite.unc.edu / worlds of
sunsite / us and world politics / browse white house papers
(2/94). Path: telnet sunsite.unc.edu / login:gopher / worlds of
sunsite / us and world politics / browse white house papers
(2/94).

              Political Science, Law and Government
                          International
                    _________________________

Canadian Government Documents: Full text of the Canadian
Constitution Act, Meech Lake Accord, Charlottetown Constitutional
Agreement and other historic Canadian government documents. Path:
gopher wiretap.spies.com. / government docs (2/94).

Canadian Supreme Court Rulings: Text of select Canadian Supreme
Court rulings. Path: gopher debra.dgbt.doc.ca / open government
project / supreme.court.rulings (2/94).

European Commission Host Organization (ECHO): European
Communities system provides access to a variety of EC databases,
library catalogs, documents, periodicals, glossaries and more.
Path: telnet echo.ixi.ch  / login:echo (2/94).

German Law Documents: Provides access to the full German language
text of select German statutory laws. Path: gopher
fatty.law.cornell.edu / foreign and international law (2/94).

International Organizations: Provides access to general
information about more than two dozen major international
organizations, from the Food and Agriculture Organization to the
World Bank. Path: gopher mirna.together.uvm.edu / united nations
/ un organizations (2/94).

Israel Information Service: Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs
system provides access to the full text of documents and speeches
about the Israeli-Arab peace process, information about other
domestic and diplomatic policy issues, general facts and
statistical data about Israel, a daily survey of the Israeli
press, country and region maps and more. Path: gopher israel-
info.gov.il (2/94).

Maastricht Treaty on European Union: Full text of the latest
addition to the Treaty on European Union, signed at Maastricht in
1992. Can be searched by keyword. Path: gopher
fatty.law.cornell.edu / foreign and international law / full text
of maastricht treaty (2/94).

North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Documents: Full text of
NATO press releases, fact sheets, speeches, the NATO Review, NATO
Handbook and other documents. Path: gopher sunsite.unc.edu /
worlds of sunsite / us and world politics / international affairs
/ read nato information (2/94). Path: telnet sunsite.unc.edu /
login:gopher / worlds of sunsite / us and world politics /
international affairs / read nato information (2/94).

Treaties and International Covenants: Full text of major world
treaties. Path: gopher fatty.law.cornell.edu / foreign and
international law / multilateral treaties (2/94).

United Nations Gopher: Provides access to the full text of U.N
press releases, United Nations Development Programme documents,
U.N. telephone directories, U.N. Conference on Environment &
Development reports and more. Path: gopher nywork1.undp.org
(2/94).

United Nations Information: Provides access to a wide variety of
U.N. information, including the full text of select General
Assembly documents, conference reports, an archive of historical
documents, the Charter of the United Nations, U.N. press releases
and more. Path: gopher mirna.together.uvm.edu (2/94).

United Nations Resolutions: Full text of select U.N. resolutions.
Collection has not been updated recently. Path: gopher
wiretap.spies.com / government docs (2/94).

World Constitutions: Full text of constitutions of select
countries worldwide. Path: gopher wiretap.spies.com / government
docs (2/94). Other constitutions can be accessed by conducting a
search with the Gopher Veronica utility, using "constitution" as
the keyword.

              Political Science, Law and Government
                         State and Local
                   ___________________________

California State Legislative Information: Provides access to the
text of California Assembly and Senate bills, bill status and
bill history information, legislative calendars, current state
statutes, the state constitution, legislative directories and
more. Path: gopher gopher.ucsc.edu / the community / guide to
government (2/94). Path: gopher sen.ca.gov (2/94). Path: ftp
leginfo.public.ca.gov / user:anonymous / password:e-mail address
/ cd pub (2/94).

District of Columbia Government Center: Provides access to a
District government directory, Census data about the District,
historical information and more. Path: telnet cap.gwu.edu /
login:guest / password:visitor / go dc (2/94).

Hawaii FYI: Provides access to Hawaii state government
directories, calendars, a legislative information system and
more. Path: telnet fyi.uhcc.hawaii.edu (2/94).

Maryland State Government Information: Provides access to the
full text of select Maryland laws and state government reports,
General Assembly rosters and committee membership lists, agency
directories and more. Path: gopher seymour.md.gov / maryland
state information (2/94).

Michigan State Legislature Directories: Provides access to
directories for the Michigan House and Senate, plus committee
rosters. Path: gopher gopher.lib.umich.edu / social sciences
resources / government and politics / michigan state government
resources (2/94). Path: telnet una.hh.lib.umich.edu /
login:gopher / social sciences resources / government and
politics / michigan state government resources (2/94).

Minnesota House of Representatives: Provides access to the full
text of House bills, House Journals, House directories, committee
membership information, brief biographies of House members and
more. Path: gopher gopher.revisor.leg.state.mn.us (2/94).

New York State Court of Appeals Decisions: University of Buffalo
system provides access to the text of court decisions and
opinions. Path: telnet freenet.buffalo.edu / login:freeport / go
court (2/94).

New York State Government Information: New York State Library
system still being developed provides access to the full text of
select New York state publications, descriptions of state
government agencies, New York State Library catalogs and
bibliographies, and more. Path: gopher unix2.nysed.gov (2/94).

North Carolina Supreme Court Information: Provides access to a
searchable database of North Carolina Supreme Court advance
sheets and the full text of the North Carolina Administrative
Code. Path: gopher sunsite.unc.edu / worlds of sunsite / law and
legal studies (2/94). Path: telnet sunsite.unc.edu / login:gopher
/ worlds of sunsite / law and legal studies (2/94).

Texas State Government Information: Provides access to the full
text of bills approved by the Texas Legislature, information
about the Texas economy, directories of Texas state government
agencies and more. Path: gopher ocs.dir.texas.gov / state of
texas government information (2/94).

Utah State Government Information: Provides access to the full
text of Utah House and Senate bills, bill status reports,
education statistics, full text of the Utah State Code, the Utah
Constitution, speeches by the governor and more. Path: gopher
gopher.cc.utah.edu / off campus information / state of utah
(2/94).

Vermont State Government Information: Provides access to the text
of Vermont Supreme Court opinions, legislative information and
Vermont statutes. Path: telnet myriad.middlebury.edu /
username:lib / area libraries / vermont legislation (2/94).

                            Sociology
                              _____

Americans With Disabilities Act: Full text of the 1990 act. Path:
gopher scilibx.ucsc.edu / the library / electronic books (2/94).

Americans With Disabilities Act Documents: Collection of
documents about the ADA, including the Department of Justice
technical manual. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational
resources / united states / government / national issues /
adaregulation (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu / educational
resources / united states / government / national issues /
adaregulation (2/94).

Children Youth Family Education Research Network (CYFER-net):
U.S. Department of Agriculture-maintained system provides a
diverse assortment of information about child welfare, youth
development, families, food and nutrition, substance abuse
prevention and more. Path: cyfer.esusda.gov (2/94).

Corporation for National and Community Service: Provides
information about federal community service programs created by
the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993. Path:
gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans communicating electronically
(2/94).

Disaster Relief Information: Clearinghouse for information about
U.S. government programs for victims of floods, fires and other
natural disasters. Path: gopher esusda.gov (2/94).

Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities: Provides
information about a new federal government program to designate
up to nine empowerment zones and 95 enterprise communities for
the purpose of helping to create jobs and improve conditions in
the nation's poorest urban neighborhoods and rural areas. Path:
gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans communicating electronically
(2/94).

Glass Ceiling Initiative: Full text of two U.S. government
reports about barriers to career advancement for minorities and
women. Path: gopher info.umd.edu / educational resources /
women's studies / gender issues / glass ceiling / department of
labor information (2/94). Path: telnet info.umd.edu / educational
resources / women's studies / gender issues / glass ceiling /
department of labor information (2/94).

Handicap News: Collection of disability-related legislation and
information -- the Americans with Disabilities Act, ADA documents
and technical manuals, the Rehabilitation Act, special education
laws, the Television Decoder Act and more. Path: ftp
handicap.afd.olivetti.com / user:anonymous / password:e-mail
address (2/94).

Human Rights Country Reports: Full text of an annual U.S.
Department of State report that describes human rights conditions
in 193 countries. Path: gopher ace.esusda.gov / americans
communicating electronically / u.s. state department releases
(2/94).

National Indian Policy Center Gopher: Provides the full text of
National Indian Policy Center reports and press releases, Census
data about Native Americans, and more. Path: gopher
gwis.circ.gwu.edu / academic departments (2/94).

Social Security Administration FTP Archive: Archive of Social
Security Administration information, including benefits
statistics, publication lists, journal article abstracts, general
information about the agency and more. Path: gopher
fatty.law.cornell.edu / government and agency information (2/94).
Path: ftp soaf1.ssa.gov / user:anonymous / password:e-mail
address / cd pub (2/94).

United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) Gopher: System still
being developed provides access to a variety of UNICEF documents,
directories and databases. Path: gopher hqfaus01.unicef.org
(2/94).

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Gopher: Provides the
full text of UNDP publications, press releases, newsletters,
speeches by UNDP officials and more. Path: gopher gopher.undp.org
/ united nations development programme documents (2/94).

                       Weather and Climate
                          _____________

Arkansas-Red River Forecast Center Gopher: National Weather
Service system provides river stage forecasts for rivers within
the Arkansas-Red River Basin, downloadable images of rainfall
recorded by satellites and more. Path: gopher
gopherpc.abrfc.noaa.gov (2/94).

National Center for Atmospheric Research Gopher: Provides access
to a dictionary of atmospheric science acronyms, full text of
center publications, a list of center job openings, the center's
online library catalog, organization directories, information
about center-produced computer graphics packages and more. Path:
gopher gopher.ucar.edu (2/94).

National Climatic Data Center Gopher: Provides the elevation,
latitude, longitude and other information for National Climatic
Data Center and National Weather Service recording stations.
Path: gopher esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / connections to noaa on-line
data and information systems / national climatic data center ftp
server (2/94). Path: telnet esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / login:gopher /
connections to noaa on-line data and information systems /
national climatic data center ftp server (2/94).

National Climatic Data Center Online Data System: Provides access
to a searchable catalog containing information about available
meteorological data sets. Data can be ordered online. System is
expected to eventually include daily weather summaries, weather
maps, information about weather events and more. Path: telnet
192.67.134.72 / login:storm / password:research (2/94).

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Satellite
Information: NOAA system provides links to a variety of satellite
image archives. Path: gopher esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov / noaa
satellite information (2/94). Path: telnet esdim1.nodc.noaa.gov /
login:gopher/ noaa satellite information (2/94).

National Weather Service Forecasts: Provides weather forecasts,
current weather conditions, information about earthquakes,
tropical storms and auroral activity for the 50 states and
Canada. Path: gopher ashpool.micro.umn.edu / weather (2/94).

University of Illinois Weather Machine: Provides current
conditions, National Weather Service forecasts, severe storm
warnings, flood summaries, earthquake bulletins, upper air
conditions, satellite images and more for the 50 states, Canada,
Mexico and the Caribbean. Path: gopher wx.atmos.uiuc.edu (2/94).

University of Michigan Weather Underground: Provides weather
forecasts, current conditions, ski reports, earthquake data,
hurricane advisories, marine observations and more. Path: telnet
downwind.sprl.umich.edu 3000 (2/94).

Weather Images: Archive of downloadable satellite weather images
and radar maps. Path: ftp vmd.cso.uiuc.edu / user:anonymous /
password:e-mail address / cd wx (2/94).

Copyright 1994 Blake Gumprecht

