      -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
      =                                                               =
      -               WELCOME TO THE TWELFTH ISSUE OF                 -
      =                                                               =
      -                        -=>PHANTASY<=-                         -
      =                                                               =
      -               A PUBLICATION AND NEWSLETTER OF                 -
      =                                                               =
      -                             THE                               -
      =                        INTERNATIONAL                          =
      -                         INFORMATION                           -
      =                          RETRIEVAL                            =
      -                            GUILD                              -
      =                                                               =
      -        Hacking,Phreaking,Anarchy,Survivalism,Commentary       -
      =                                                               =
      -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

         Volume Number Three,Issue Number Twelve Dated 11/30/92
               Editor is Mercenary : mercenar@works.UUCP

             Article Submissions: The Mercenary/IIRG
                                  862 Farmington Avenue
                                  Suite 306
                                  Bristol,Ct 06010

             Phantasy Headquarters BBS: The Rune Stone
                                        14.4K HST
                                        Invitation Only
                                        (203)-PRI-VATE

           IIRG World Headquarters BBS: Dark Shadows
                                        19.2/9600 Baud HST
                                        1.2 Gigs Online
                                        (203)-PRI-VATE


        Table of Discontents:


          [1] Subscription Information
              By: Mercenary

          [2] NYX Tightning Security

          [3] Another Crystal Source
              By: Saint Anarchy/IIRG

          [4] Randy Weaver Follow-Up

                1. UNDECLARED WAR AGAINST CHRISTIAN AMERICANS
                   By: Jack McLamb
                2. WEAVER SET UP BY FEDS
                   By Mike Blair of Spotlight Magazine
                3. CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES ON TRIAL IN IDAHO
                   By Andrew Arnold of Spotlight Magazine

          [5] FOR THE PEOPLE
              Supplied By: Bulletin Boards Across the Country
              Edited by: Mercenary

                1. WASHINGTON 2600 MEETINGS UPDATE
                2. NEW MAG: U.S. MILITIA

          [6] The Rumor Mill (Unconfirmed rumors from the Underground)
              Edited By: Mercenary

                1. FED ALERT (?)
                2. ASSHOLE WARNING (?)

          [7] PHANTASY TIDBITS: News and Views of Interest

                1. CERT Advisory-Revised VMS Monitor Vulnerability
                2. Nintendo(R)  N E W S   R E L E A S E
                3. Edwardsville Teen Charged with theft

          [8] Listing of IIRG Distribution Sites

          [9] Listing of PHANTASY Distribution Sites

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

    OFFICIAL DISLAIMER...

    All information in PHANTASY is from USER contributed material
    The Publishers and Editors of PHANTASY and THE IIRG disclaim
    any liability from any damages of any type that the reader or
    user of such information contained within this newsletter may encounter
    from the use of said information. All files are brought to you for
    entertainment purposes only! We also assume all information infringes
    no copyrights and hereby disclaim any liability.

    PHANTASY is (C) 1990 by The IIRG
    IIRG and INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION RETRIEVAL GUILD is (C) 1982

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [1]: Subscription Information
              By: Mercenary

  Lately I've been swamped with requests for Phantasy Subscriptions Via
 the Internet. So lets make this clear.... AT THIS TIME THERE IS NO
 SUBSCRIPTION VIA INTERNET AVAILABLE...
  You may get Phantasy over the Internet From FTP.EFF.ORG or any of their
 mirror sites. If I could find someone willing to take on the task of
 mailing out Phantasy, we could offer this service.
  But between Myself and our members responsibilities we don't have
 enough time. So Hello World?? Anyone out there Willing to take on the Job??
 and Join the IIRG ??

  Contact Me at : mercenar@works.UUCP

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [2]: NYX Tightening Security

  From the System Administrator of NYX.CS.DU.EDU

   [Synopsis of what happened late November 1992.]

  A vandal, completely and irresponsibly wiped out the "password" file (Unix's
 list of all users) after finding a means to break into the "Superuser"
 level of the system; this crippled the system for days since your friendly
 sys admin was out of town, and caused him much grief upon return.
  This vandal claims it was an accident, but that doesn't
 alter the fact that it should never have happened; the only way to avoid
 accidents like this is not to be doing anything where an accident could
 be harmful.  His breakin is intolerably irresponsible.
 [Further note that crackers like this rarely understand what they're doing;
 they just follow instructions for breaking in often written by the people
 who are trying to fix the holes.
 Most crackers are not above average intelligence; indeed, based on the messes
 they cause, I tend to think of them as below average.
 Breaking in does not impress me!]

 Other recent problems have been the rash of crank accounts -- phoney names
 used to harrass other users or cause other kinds of problems.

 These events are the direct cause of Nyx moving toward full validation of
 all users, grrrrr.

 Grow up, people!  Think about someone other than yourself for once!


 IIRG NOTE :  The IIRG has found numerous referrals to this "Accident",
              Such as the following....

             ---------------------------------------------------------
             Is anybody here on that stupid NYX.CS.DU.EDU ?
             Oh well im Cracking the Password File
             Oh boy, but I will have about 20 account w/ shell access,
             anybody wanna trade somthing???
             ---------------------------------------------------------

       If you are on NYX , We here at the IIRG would suggest changing your
      Password as well as calling in and re-validating yourself as the
      Sys Admin. is requiring, Accounts will be shut down on 12/7 to the
      limited preview security level.
       Its too bad that several idiots must Crack a Hacker Friendly System,
      theres not that many left out there.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [3]: Another Crystal Source
              By: Saint Anarchy

  For those of you trying to modify a Rat Shack (Radio Shack) auto-dialer
 Part Number: 43-141, from the Sanctuary Phile or Similar text file
 floating around.
  Another good source for the 6.5536 MHz Crystal is Mouser Electronics
 call them at 1-800-346-6873 (1-800-34-MOUSER)
  The crystal can be found in catalog #572 on page 45, Mouser's Part Number is
 332-1066, Pricing is as follows...

                        1 - 1.95
                       10 - 18.30
                      100 - 169.00

 Hope this helps those of you I've seen on the boards looking for a source
 of this crystal,

                   Saint Anarchy/IIRG

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [4]: Randy Weaver Follow-Up

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Part 1 : UNDECLARED WAR AGAINST CHRISTIAN AMERICANS
                             By: Jack McLamb

    Jack McLamb, a retired lawman from Phoenix, Arizona, was on the
scene at the bloody siege of the Randy Weaver household in northern
Idaho. He arrived with Lt. Col. James "Bo" Gritz, who together with
McLamb established contact with the Weavers and defused a situation
that would have turned even more bloody had they not intervened. This
is McLamb's dramatic account, told here in the first person, drawn
from his interview on the September 2 broadcast of Radio Free
America. McLamb has been investigating a similar incident resulting
in the death by incineration of Gordon Kahl in Arkansas at the hands
of federal officers. He begins his narrative account on the day of
the first shootings. The transcript follows:

          ------------------------------------------

    On Friday, August 21, six federal officers were conducting
surveillance on Randy Weaver's cabin. They were on the property, and
they had no legal reason to be there. They were not there to serve a
warrant of any kind.
    What happened was that the Weavers' dogs picked up their scent.
These gentlemen were in full camouflage uniforms, meaning that you
could walk right by them in the forest and never see them. However,
the dogs began chasing them.
    When Randy, Samuel [his 14-year-old son] and Kevin Harris
[a young friend who had been living with the Weaver family since his
early teens] heard the dogs barking, they did what mountain men do:
Tney grabbed their guns, thinking that there might be an antelope, an
elk, game of some kind, in the vicinity.
    Kevin and Samuel went to the forest. Randy took the road. They
expected to encircle the animal. Kevin and Samuel ran into the
camouflaged men. The dogs, of course, were going after these
strangers on the property. The marshals turned around and killed one
of the family dogs, in fact, Samuel's favorite dog which he had
raised and trained from a pup. It was trained to carry water from the
creek up to the home on a sled during the heavy winters up there in
the mountain.
    Young Sam, not knowing who these men were, yelled, "You're
killing my dog," and opened fire on them. Sam was then shot in the
shoulder, and as he turned around to run to the cabin he took a bullet
in the middle of his back, and it killed him instantly.
    Kevin went over and took Sam's pulse and found that he was dead
and then opened fire on these men who had killed Sam and who had not
announced what they were doing.
    Randy heard this happening from the road. Just about this time,
two of these camouflage-clothed men came out of the woods and said,
"Randy, you're under arrest."
    Randy started running back to the cabin, fired his gun a number
of times, and yelled to Kevin and Sam to "Get back to the cabin." He
met Kevin at the cabin, who told him that his boy had been killed by
these men. At that point they barricaded themselves in the cabin.
    Now, Randy had called Bo Gritz the month before. They knew each
other from Fort Bragg when Randy was a Special Forces soldier. He
asked Bo to come up and help him since he was afraid that the
government was going to come in and destroy his family. Bo was on the
campaign trail and was extremely busy and could not go.
    Well, Tuesday of last week [August 25], I was sitting at lunch
with Bo when he described to me how bad he felt about not having gone
up there when Randy called. By this time we had heard about the
barricade situation and the loss of the marshal's life in the news.
However, I had no idea that Bo knew him [Randy].
    Bo was quite distraught and kept saying, "I should have
responded. I should have responded." Then he said, "I want to ask you
something. If I were to go up there now, would you go with me as my
backup? I want to go up there and see if I can help Randy and his
family."
    So I agreed to go
    We put everything on hold, and by Wednesday, August 26, we were
there in Idaho. We went straight to the roadblock and announced
ourselves to the 300 or so supporters of the family who were there.
    As a police officer, I've been in riots, and this situation was
very tense. The people were in a very bad mood. And on the other side
of the roadblock were about 1OO Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms [BATF] officers, FBI officers and Idaho State Police
officers. The officers were on edge and ready to go to war against
these people.
    These people were friends and neighbors of the Weavers. They knew
that the Weavers were no bother to anyone. There were witnesses who
told us that they had seen a helicopter hovering around the mountain
top carrying a fuel bladder, to drop on the cabin and set it ablaze.
We didn't see it, but this is what they told us, and shows that the
crowd had good reason to be concerned about the family's safety.
    When Bo got out of the car, it was amazing. They calmed right
down. Bo spoke to them and told them why he was there--to try to save
the rest of the family and get them out of there.
    Then he approached the barricade and told the soldiers that he
wanted to talk to the FBI man in charge. That was Special Agent Gene
Glenn. They sent the message up to the top of the mountain, but Glenn
said he was too busy.
    We stayed there until Friday, and Glenn was still too busy. But I
know that when you've got somebody surrounded in a building and
control the perimeter of the area you've got nothing but time on your
hands. I knew and Bo knew that Glenn just didn't want to have
anything to do with him.
    It was also on Thursday that [radio personality] Paul Harvey--not
knowing either Bo or Randy or their relationship--got on the news and
said, "Randy, if you are listening, do not have anything to do with
the people coming up to see you. They are there for political
ambition. Please pick up the telephone outside your cabin and call me
and talk to me, and I'll make sure you get the best lawyer in the
country."
    He was, of course, talking about Bo.
    However, when Randy looked out the door of the cabin, he saw a
robot that they sent up carrying a telephone and monitoring the cabin
with a camera. Mounted on the other side of the phone was a 12-gauge
shotgun. So Randy would have thought twice about reaching out and
picking up the telephone that Paul Harvey was urging him to pick up.
    Obviously, it was kind of disturbing that Paul had said Bo was
going out there for "political gain."
    In any case, luckily, Randy didn't even hear Paul Harvey. Just
imagine what would have happened had Randy not known Bo that much,
and he might not have communicated with Bo, based upon what Paul
Harvey was saying.
    It was a very serious thing for Paul Harvey to have done. We
didn't understand why.
    On Friday we had been there for 2 1/2 days waiting for Gene
Glenn. The FBI had had no success whatsoever in communicating with
Randy, so by Friday afternoon Bo was getting angry. He knew that he
could have a dialog with Randy, and Randy had asked him to come up.
    At this point, Bo put together citizen's arrest warrants to
arrest the head of the FBI, the head of the U.S. Marshal's Service,
the governor of Idaho, and FBI agent in charge Gene Glenn. At about
1 o'clock on Friday we approached the roadblock and read aloud the
citizen's arrest forms and the indictments and asked the persons to
step forward [to be served].
    Bo had requested that the people in Hawaii who had first
described this citizen's arrest tactic on your show fax him the
information. So they did so, and Bo served those people in the
afternoon on the barricade.
   We did this in a legal fashion, since I, as a police officer, know
how to do it. Bo read the indictment and the charges, and asked the
people or their representatives to step forward. No one did. So then
we placed the papers under a rock and placed them on the other side
of the barricade. Service was complete.
    Then the county attorney came through, read the papers and said
they were of no effect--that they just weren't any good. But within
half an hour, Special Agent Gene Glenn called for Bo, and he was
transported to the top of the mountain on Friday afternoon and made
the first contact with Randy that had been made throughout the
ordeal.
    If the papers were of "no effect," something sure moved Special
Agent Glenn.
    Bo spent the evening up there talking to Randy, and he came back
and reported to those of us at the roadblock. The crowd had calmed
down considerably, and the po]ice at the roadblock told me that they
were very appreciative that Bo had come. They were thinking there was
going to be quite a riot.
    I stood at the front of the roadblock, and because I was a police
officer myself I had good communication with the other officers there.
    This was good for all concerned, because the scene was getting
out of hand. The BATF and FBI officers thanked us for the calming
effect we had on the crowd. These men were not intimidated by the
fact that Bo and I had come.
    Those on the mountain, the higher management people, were not too
pleased that Bo had come, but they were quite amazed that he had
picked up the ball and started talking to Randy, and Randy started
responding. They didn't know that Randy and Bo had a good
relationship.
    Bo came back down about 9:30 that night and told the crowd that
he had good news and bad. The good news was that Kevin was still
alive, although shot and seriously injured. The bad was that Vicki
Weaver was killed last Saturday by a sniper bullet to the head. Now
when Bo told the people what had happened, it was quite a shock, and
even the officers on the gate who had heard this for the first time
were shaken. All of the officers I talked to were very upset that the
special operations unit of the Marshal's Service which was on the
property illegally had really instigated this terrible tragedy. They
were upset and knew this was wrong.
    Vicki was killed the day that she and her family had prepared
their dead son's body for burial. In accordance with the Old
Testament they wrapped his body in white clothing and had taken him
to an outbuilding beside the house. Kevin and Randy went to the
outbuilding to be with the boy's body for prayer, and a sniper shot
Randy through the arm. He told Kevin to run for the cabin, and they
did, not returning fire.
    As they reached the cabin, Vicki had opened the door and was
holding the eight-month-old baby, Elishaba, in her arms. As Randy and
Kevin ran by her, she was shot through the head by a sniper using a
highpowered rifle. She fell dead on the floor, dropping the baby, who
was not injured. Now there were three people who had been wounded.
    Vicki had not yet died. Kevin, however, was struck by shrapnel
and probably bone particles from Vicki's injury. Bo looked at the
hole in the building and realized that it was probably a .300 Magnum
rifle, a very high powered rifle. That kind of rifle could be shot
from about 300 yards without missing the target. We're not sure how
far away the sniper was.
    Randy helped the girls put the mother under the kitchen table,
and that's where she lay for the next 10 days, and they barricaded
themselves in the cabin. They did not come out until the 11th day.
    On Saturday, after Bo had told the crowd that Vicki was dead, Bo
took a local preacher and a friend of the girls named Jackie up to
the cabin. Jackie was able to start a dialog with the girls: Sarah,
16, Rachel, who turned 11 during the time they were up there, and,
there was, of course, eight-month-old Elishaba.
    When Bo came down on Saturday evening, he told me that Randy had
heard on the radio that they were spendirg $1 million a day to tap
his phone. Randy said that they should take the money and "give it to
Jack McLamb to investigate the Gordon Kahl case."
    Neither Bo nor I knew that he even knew of me. Well, Bo told
Randy that I was down at the bottom of the mountain, and Randy said
that he'd love to talk to me. Then I went up and was able to speak
for quite a long time to Randy. It was good to be able to talk to
Randy and the girls.
    The FBI man in charge, Gene Glenn, was happy that we were able to
get Randy talking. They had been there and had been unable to get him
to talk.
    We went back up on Sunday morning, and by around noon, Bo had
talked Kevin into ]eaving the house. He knew he would die if he didn't
get medical assistance. We had called up a National Guard doctor. Now
the young Weaver girls, who were very well trained in medical
treatment and survival by their parents, took his vital signs and
made a list of his injuries. The girls gave this information to the
doctor who made a diagnosis that Kevin needed immediate treatment
because his lung was filling up with blood.
    When I entered that house for the first time, I was shocked. It
looked like a tomb. The air was stale, the windows had been blocked,
and they hadn't seen sunlight for some 10 days. It was macabre. I had
never seen anything like it.
    These young people had been in the house with their dead mother's
body in the kitchen for 10 days. Randy's arm was festering terribly
and smelling very bad. In the meantime, we put Kevin in a rocking
chair on the front porch.
    The minute Bo and I saw the young faces of these beautiful little
girls, tears started running down their faces, and Bo and I just
burst out crying. Sarah put her arms up to me, and I hugged her and
told her I loved her. Rachel put her arms around Bo. Randy started
crying, and we hugged him and told him we loved him. We spent a few
minutes there, just stroking their heads and telling them we would
get them out safely.
    [McLamb's voice breaks, he is momentarily overcome, and then
resumes his narration.]
    You can't imagine what they've been through. One minute they were
a whole family. The next minute the family was pretty much destroyed.
    Now the FBI had promised that Kevin would not be handcuffed and
that I could accompany him all the way to the hospital in Spokane. I
patted him down and made certain that he had no weapons. Then, Bo and
I got Kevin down to a stretcher and carried him down the hill to the
waiting doctors. He and I flew by helicopter to Sacred Heart Hospital
[in Spokane, Washington] where his parents were waiting for him.
    He was just a frightened kid. His eyes looked like he was just
going to die of fright. He, of course, hadn't wanted to shoot anybody.
When they went out thinking they were chasing a deer they had no idea
they were going to be shot at. He wanted me to hold his hand in the
helicopter. I left him with his parents at the hospital and returned
to the mountain top with Bo. I understand he's doing much better.
    While I was gone, Bo had gotten Vicki's body out of the house and
put her in a body bag with Randy's help. A friend of the family named
Jackie came up at this point and began cleaning up all the blood as
Bo walked down the hill with Vicki's body over his shoulder.
    God bless Jackie. We thought she was going to break down--she had
loved Vicki so much.
    We were told by federal officials that Randy would have to come
out of the cabin by Monday and that Bo and I would have to leave the
mountain. Bo and I knew that meant that they were going to storm the
house and that there would be further loss of life.
    Sunday night Bo and I talked about our plan for Monday. We didn't
know what we were going to do. I drafted a letter to Randy and got
some of Randy's friends to rewrite the letter and sign it themselves.
The letter asked Randy to come out and to p]ease fight the battle in
the court.
    However, we didn't know how we were going to talk Randy out. So
we prayed in earnest for some time that night. Now Bo and I knew that
if we were able to get back into the house we might well have to grab
Randy and capture him and bring him out that way. Bo decided that he
would grab Randy, pin his hands to his sides, and I would grab the
two girls, and that way we would get them out of the house.
    The code word for the FBI was "Alaska." If we hollered "Alaska"
that would mean that we would need the FBI's help. The girls were
afraid that the federal agents were going to kill them, and they had
real good reasons to believe that.
    The little infant girl was still there. Bo and I were very
concerned that eight-month-old child would be killed if the house
were stormed. That's why we developed the "Alaska" plan. That was the
last-ditch effort we had in mind.
    On Monday morning we took the letter signed by some of Randy's
friends and shoved it under the door and let them know how Kevin was
doing at the hospital.
    They wouldn't open the door, but Bo and I got down and began
praying as hard as we've ever prayed before, for nearly an hour.
However, by 12:15 that door opened, and Randy gave up.
    We came in and hugged everybody again and prayed together. It was
an unbelievably emotional situation. We walked down the hill hand in
hand and presented the children to their relatives and Randy to the
marshals.

                     It was a glorious day. -*END

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         WEAVER SET UP BY FEDS
                             By Mike Blair
                           Spotlight Magazine

    The SPOTLIGHT has learned Randy Weaver has confided to at least
two persons he had been set up on federal firearms violations to get
him to act as an informant for FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms agents investigating the activities of right-wing groups in
the area.
    Weaver recently held hundreds of federal, state and local law
enforcement at bay in his primitive mountain-top cabin in northern
Idaho.
    Weaver has since surrendered, only after the murders of his wife
and his teenage son by federal agents.
    Another man, Kevin Harris, who had been raised by the Weaver
family since he was a teenager and who has lived with them ever
since, is in critical condition in the Sacred Heart Medical Center in
Spokane, Washington with a collapsed lung and bullet wounds in the
arm after surrendering the day before Weaver led his surviving family
members out of the cabin.
    Weaver had been holed up in the cabin since February, 1991, after
he failed to appear in federal court to face charges of selling an
allegedly "sawed-off' shotgun to an undercover federal agent. His
wife and son were murdered by federal and local law enforcement
agents during the confrontation.

OFFICIALS TRIED TO BLACKMAIL VETERAN

    Weaver, a U.S. Army Special Forces veteran, revealed in separate
conversations with two SPOTLIGHT sources, both previously unknown to
each other, that he was set up by federal officials who tried to
blackmail him into infiltrating the right-wing Aryan Nations group
and report its activities to them.
    They intimated, he said, that if he cooperated as an informant,
the federal officials would make a deal regarding the charges he
faced. Weaver said he refused.
    Prior to his arrest on the gun charges on January 17, 1991,
Weaver had apparently attended some meetings of the Aryan Nations
White separatist group, but was not, according to a number of
sources, a member himself.
    He was indicted on the federal firearms violation charge by a
grand jury in December, 1990. Although it has not been reported
elsewhere, Weaver was apparently indicted at the time on other
unspecified charges, which remain sealed by the court, and federal
authorities, have not taken action on them up to this point.
    Weaver's claim of being set up by federal officials has also been
reported to The SPOTLIGHT by a Bonners Ferry, Idaho man. Bonners
Ferry is near the Weaver cabin, located in Boundary County and about
40 miles from the Canadian border.
    The Spokane man said "Weaver told him he had some trouble while
in the Army with an officer involving a drug investigation, but he
(Weaver) did not think his knowledge of this was connected to his
current problems. Weaver did not volunteer any details of the drug
case to the man.

LOCAL HONCHOS TAINTED  BY DOPE?

    However, the source in Spokane told The SPOTLIGHT that people
close to Weaver have revealed to him that drug trafficking was
involved, that Weaver may have encountered evidence of the
involvement of local officials in illegal drug operations during
Weaver's unsuccessful run for sheriff of Boundary County in 1988.
    Various sources have told The SPOTLIGHT the area has for years
been used for drug trafficking due to its remoteness and proximity to
the Canadian border.
    The charges for which Weaver was wanted--selling a sawed-off
shotgun that was allegedly only a fraction of an inch below the legal
limit to an undercover government agent, and failure to appear for a
court hearing stemming from that charge--hardly merited the
"take-no-prisoners" assault by law enforcement--unless, of course,
Weaver's accusations are true. -*END

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES ON TRIAL IN IDAHO
                             By Andrew Arnold
                            Spotlight Magazine

     The latest developments in the police massacre of Vicki and Sam
Weaver, and the upcoming trials of Randy Weaver and family friend
Kevin Harris, include a fundamental test of the rule of law in this
country.
     The trial of Randy Weaver for aiding and abetting Kevin Harris
in the alleged murder of a federal marshal, according to lawyers in
the West, will decide issues of paramount importance to all citizens
of this country.
     Weaver's daughters were mentioned in the indictment, but,
according to a court spokesman they will not be charged with a crime.
     Fundamental questions such as whether individuals have a right to
protect themselves and their families from the government and what
role an individual has in relation to the government in this society
will be tested.
     Gerry Spence, the flamboyant cowboy attorney, along with Kent
Spence, the attorney's son, and Boise lawyer Charles Peterson, are
defending Weaver. Spence said that while he does not "see eye to eye"
with Weaver on social issues, the quest for justice burns deeper than
politics and religion.
     "We cheer on the cops, the power structure; and we want to give
them this unlimited power to do whatever they want to do," Spence
said in a prepared statement reported in the *Casper [Wyoming] Star
Tribune.* "And we think it's all right if it's exercised against a
White supremacist, or a nazi or a Black or a Jew, or our neighbors...
everybody except us."

RIGHTS IMPORTANT

     But by diminishing the rights of "the most vicious criminal, or a
White separatist... what we are really doing is taking away our own
rights," he added. "We'll wake up one day and have none... and we'll
wonder what happened to America.
     "We [Weaver and the lawyers] agree on the only important issue --
that in America all citizens have the right to think, to speak and to
worship as they please," Spence said.
     Weaver and Kevin Harris are charged with assault and murder. The
trial has been set for October 26 in the Boise, Idaho federal court.
Peterson said in a telephone interview, prosecutors are expected to
add more charges against the two. This would delay the trial.
     Harris, a friend of the Weaver family, admitted shooting William
Degan, a federal marshal, after he and two other camouflaged men were
spotted on Weaver's mountaintop property by family dogs. The men
killed the dogs. Then (according to Weaver's account of the story
relayed by Spence to Radio Free America host Tom Valentine)
14-year-old Sam Weaver and Degan were both shot and killed in a
fire-fight.

NO WARRANTS

     According to accounts of witnesses on the scene of the Idaho
mountaintop standoff, the marshals did not have warrants nor did they
announce they were federal agents. Peterson said this information did
not come out at the indictment hearing.
     Harris admitted killing Degan while he was in custody at a
Spokane hospital, according to press accounts.
     "Spence told this reporter that during the preliminary hearing it
was obvious to everyone Weaver did not participate in the fire fight,"
Valentine told The SPOTLIGHT. "FBI agent [Greg] Rampton said only that
'sometime during the exchange of fire, Randy Weaver showed up.'"
     Rampton was not at the Weaver hearing. Two federal marshals,
Larry Cooper and Arthur Roderick Jr., did testify, according to
Peterson.  Neither placed Weaver at the scene of the shooting or
definitely with a weapon.
     "They didn't have any evidence Randy Weaver fired a shot,"
Peterson said. "Both federal marshals said they saw Weaver turn and
run up the hill [toward his cabin]. Both testified he ran away. They
said they thought they saw a weapon."
     "It became very clear in the last week that there was no evidence
that tied Randy Weaver to any misconduct," Spence said outside the
court. "There is not one iota of evidence in this case that Mr. Weaver
did anything."

DEATH DETAILED

     At Harris's separate detention hearing, Rampton testified how
Mrs. Weaver was shot to death on August 22, according to the
Associated Press.
     Rampton said an unnamed agent in an FBI surveillance helicopter
thought Harris was about to shoot at the helicopter, and the agent
shot twice. The second shot came as Harris ran back into the cabin. It
allegedly struck Harris in the shoulder and also hit Mrs. Weaver in
the head, blowing off half of her face and killing her as she held her
10-month old child in her arms.
     The Weavers' daughters are referred to in the body of the text of
the federal indictment, but a court spokesman said they are not
indicted for any crimes, and the children will not stand trial.
     The government has said it will seek the death penalty against
both Weaver and Harris.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [5]: FOR THE PEOPLE
              Supplied By: Bulletin Boards Across the Country
              Edited by: Mercenary

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     WASHINGTON 2600 MEETINGS UPDATE

   Washington,D.C. 2600 meetings are continuing as usual at Pentagon City.
 The next one is THIS FRIDAY, Dec 4th at Pentagon City Shopping Mall,
                      (Blue/Yellow line on the Metro).
 A bunch of people are coming down from New York for it,
 (Emmanuel, Phiber, DA, and others), and people are coming up from Richmond,
 and down from Baltimore.
  It'll be a slamming meeting, so if you're in the vicinity, drop in from
 5pm-9pm, the earlier the better.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     NEW MAG: U.S. MILITIA

  Kurt Saxon, the author of The Poor Mans James Bond Series, is currently
 working on what should prove to be an interesting "Zine".
  It's called "U.S. Militia", and will contain articles pertaining to
 "community defense".  Basicly, it'll be like the Poor Mans James Bond in
 peridical form.  It'll be published monthly, and each issue will run 80 pages
 in 8 1/2 x 11 format.  The subscription rate is $35/year.

   His address is:
                     Atlan Formularies
                     P.O. Box 95
                     Alpena, AR 72611

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Section [6]: The Rumor Mill (Unconfirmed rumors from the Underground)
              Edited By: Mercenary

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             FED ALERT (?)

  Sources from the group BUSTINFO say that the Chicago suburban board,
 The Hell Pit is co-operating in a FED board bust and are keeping
 complete INFO and global trapping on ALL their callers as well as
 collecting screen captures and file lists from other Chicago area
 boards.  They can be reached at (708) 459-7267 (NOT a wise move to
 call though).

  BUSTINFO's aim is to literally paralize the board (and any other sting
 boards) by stopping all callers to it via public information.
  Please post this alert on any other boards that can get the word out.
 Your co-operation is essential in stopping the unfairness of
 FED board busts.

  What this means, Boys and Girls. Is that once AGAIN, Your wonderful
 GOVERNMENT is trying to gather information on the general public
 for the SOLE purpose of gathering information. I did NOT get this file
 from "The Hell PIT", which means that the GOV'T is ONCE more trying to
 STOP the free exchange of information and IDEAS.  Any and ALL info
 that "The Hell Pit" has on its users is now in the hands of Uncle Sam.
 This info includes Info on what you uploaded, what you d'loaded,any
 and all messages you sent or recieved.  PERSONALLY I don't think that
 it is ANY of the Gov'ts BUSINESS how I spend my time on ANY BBS.

  If the GOV'T REALLY wanted to know arout BBSing and what goes on on a
 BBS, They should set up their own BBS. NOT hide behind someone elses!

 PLEASE POST THIS ON ALL BBS'S,WE DON'T NEED MORE INTERFERANCE from UNCLE SAM.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            ASSHOLE WARNING (?)
  Chad XXXX
  [EDITED]
  Longwood, FL  32750

 Voice Phone Numbers:       407-XXX-XXXX [IIRG Edited]
 Data (BBS) Phone Number:   407-XXX-XXXX [IIRG Edited]

  He is a Hub of Fidonet and has the address of 1:363/228.
  His name in Fido is C XXXX.

   He logs onto Pirate BBS' with other pirates' handles and passwords
  gathering information about them and then reporting them to
  government officials.
   He get's the passwords from his board to log on with.
  He also gets pirates' names and handles and phone numbers and
  gives them to the police as well as post them in public areas for all
  to call.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [7]: PHANTASY TIDBITS: News and Views of Interest

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CA-92:18                     CERT Advisory
                           November 17, 1992
                    Revised VMS Monitor Vulnerability

               *** THIS IS A REVISED CERT ADVISORY ***
*** IT CONTAINS NEW INFORMATION REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF IMAGE KITS ***
              *** SUPERSEDES CERT ADVISORY CA-92:16 ***


  The CERT Coordination Center received information concerning a
 potential vulnerability with Digital Equipment Corporation's VMS
 Monitor. This vulnerability is present in V5.0 through V5.4-2 but has
 been corrected in V5.4-3 through V5.5-1.  The Software Security
 Response Team at Digital has provided the following information
 concerning this vulnerability.

  The remedial image kit was not available at the time CERT distributed
 the CA-92:16.VMS.monitor.vulnerability advisory (dated September 22,
 1992).  At that time, Digital strongly suggested that customers either
 upgrade to VMS V5.4-3 (preferably to V5.5-1) or implement the provided
 workaround if unable to upgrade.

  The following SSRT-200-1 addendum contains information about the
 availability of new images to address the possible vulnerability with
 VMS Monitor.

  This last and final addendum includes new information about remedial
 images for VMS V5.0 through V5.4-2.

  Digital strongly suggests that those customers who were unable to
 upgrade their systems (i.e., VMS V5.0 through V5.4-2) obtain and
 install the remedial image kit on their system(s).

  For additional information, please contact your normal Digital
 Services Support Organization.

           The information separated by the hash (#) line is
         excerpted from the previously published CERT Advisory

##############################################################################

SSRT-0200      PROBLEM: Potential Security Vulnerability Identified in Monitor
                SOURCE: Digital Equipment Corporation
                AUTHOR: Software Security Response Team - U.S.
                        Colorado Springs USA

               PRODUCT:  VMS
Symptoms Identified On:  VMS, Versions 5.0, 5.0-1, 5.0-2, 5.1, 5.1-B,
                                       5.1-1, 5.1-2, 5.2, 5.2-1, 5.3,
                                       5.3-1, 5.3-2, 5.4, 5.4-1, 5.4-2

            *******************************************************
            SOLUTION: This problem is not present in VMS V5.4-3
                      (released in October 1991) through V5.5-1
                      (released in July, 1992.)
            *******************************************************
Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1992 All Rights Reserved.
Published Rights Reserved Under The Copyright Laws Of The United States.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROBLEM/IMPACT:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Unauthorized privileges may be expanded to authorized users of a system
     under certain conditions, via the Monitor utility.   Should a system be
     compromised through unauthorized access, there is a risk of potential
     damage to a system environment.  This problem will not permit unauthorized
     access entry, as individuals attempting to gain unauthorized access will
     continue to be denied through the standard VMS security mechanisms.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOLUTION:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     This potential vulnerability does not exist in VMS V5.4-3
     (released in October 1991) and later versions of VMS through V5.5-1.

     Digital strongly recommends that you upgrade to a minimum of VMS V5.4-3,
     and further, to the latest release of VMS V5.5-1. (released in July, 1992)

###############################################################################

        End of material excerpted from previously published CERT Advisory


          Beginning of Text Provided by Digital Equipment Corporation
===============================================================================

     21-OCT-1992 SSRT-0200-1 (ADDENDUM)
     21-AUG-1992 SSRT-0200

     SOURCE:            Digital Equipment Corporation
     AUTHOR:            Software Security Response Team - U.S.
                        Colorado Springs USA

             PRODUCT: VMS MONITOR V5.0 through V5.4-2

             PROBLEM: Potential Security Vulnerability in VMS Monitor Utility
            SOLUTION: A VMS V5.0 through V5.4-2 remedial kit is now available
                      by contacting your normal Digital Services Support
                      organization.

            NOTE:     This problem has been corrected in VAX VMS V5.4-3
                      (released in October 1991).
           __________________________________________________________________
           The kit may be identified as MONTOR$S01_05* or CSCPAT_1047
           via DSIN , and DSNlink.
           ------------------------------------------------------------------

     Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1992 All Rights Reserved.
     Published Rights Reserved Under The Copyright Laws Of The United States.

     -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     ADVISORY ADDENDUM INFORMATION:
     -------------------------------------------------------------------------

     In August 1992, an advisory and article was distributed describing a
     potential security vulnerability discovered in the VMS Monitor utility and
     provided suggested workarounds to remove the vulnerability. The advisory
     was labeled SSRT-200 "Potential Security Vulnerability in VMS Monitor
     Utility".

     This advisory follows that advisory with information of the
     availability of a kit containing a new sys$share:spishr.exe for VMS
     V5.0-* through VMS V5.4-2 and may be identified as MONTOR$S01_050
     through MONTOR$S01_054 respectively from your Digital Services
     organization.
     In the U.S.the kit is also identified as CSCPAT_1047 via DSIN and DSNlink.

Note:This potential vulnerability does not exist in VMS V5.4-3 and later
     versions of VMS.  Digital strongly recommends that you upgrade to a
     minimum of VMS V5.4-3, and further, to the latest release of VMS V5.5-1.
     (released in July, 1992)
     If you cannot upgrade to a minimum of VMS V5.4-3 at this time,
     Digital strongly recommends that you install the available V5.0-*
     through V5.4-2 kit on your  system(s), available from your support
     organization, to avoid any potential vulnerability.

     You may obtain a kit for VMS V5.0 through V5.4-2 by contacting your normal
     Digital Services support organization. (Customer Support Center, using
     DSNlink or DSIN, or your local support office)

     As always, Digital recommends that you periodically review your system
     management and security procedures.  Digital will continue to review and
     enhance the security features of its products and work with customers to
     maintain and improve the security and integrity of their systems.

===========================================================================
        End of Text provided by Digital Equipment Corporation

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
CERT wishes to thank Teun Nijssen of CERT-NL (the SURFnet CERT, in the
Netherlands) for bringing this security vulnerability to our attention.
We would also like to thank Digital Equipment Corporation's Software Security
Response Team for providing information on this vulnerability.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you believe that your system has been compromised, contact CERT or
your representative in FIRST (Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams).

Internet E-mail: cert@cert.org
Telephone: 412-268-7090 (24-hour hotline)
           CERT personnel answer 7:30 a.m.-6:00 p.m. EST(GMT-5)/EDT(GMT-4),
           on call for emergencies during other hours.

CERT Coordination Center
Software Engineering Institute
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   Nintendo(R)  N E W S   R E L E A S E


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE            CONTACT:
                                  Lynn Hvalsoe\Nintendo of America Inc.
                                  (206) 861-2096

                                  James Bikoff\Arter & Hadden
                                  (202) 775-7100


NINTENDO JOINS IN SEIZURE AGAINST ILLEGAL BULLETIN BOARD SOFTWARE

     REDMOND, WA -- As part of a continuing and aggressive effort to
halt counterfeiting of video games and business software, Nintendo of
America Inc. and six major software manufactures filed an action
against distributors of computer "bulletin board" network system giving
software access to users.

     Illegal software was seized by authorities from APL, an electronic
bulletin board computer system (BBS) headquartered in Baltimore, MD.

     "Counterfeiting and illegal use of video games and business
software has grown immensely over the past few years.  We have and will
continue to prosecute those who've become part of the underground
counterfeiting network," said Lynn Hvalsoe, Nintendo's General Counsel.

     The legal action outlines that illegal software was accessed
through opperators who provide personal computers a code to enter the
system via telephone and modem.  Illegal bulletin boards have become a
popular trend, with an estimated 5,000 systems in the United States.
Illegal bulletin boards also have been found in Europe and Asia.

     This case represents the first time video game and business
software companies have joind together to fight software pirating.  The
business software companies, represented in this case through the
Business Software Associatiom (BSA), includes Aldus, Autodesk, Lotus
Development, Microsoft. Novel and WordPerfect.  All companies,
including Nintendo, are individual plaintiffs in the legal action.

     The action is part of Nintendo's large anti-counterfeiting
campain, much of which is aimed at illegal video games being
manufactured, sold and shipped from Taiwan, Hong Kong, and other
countries.

     "Counterfeiting is a very serious crime and Nintendo is working
hard to let violaters know they will be pursued and charges will be
brought against them," added Hvalsoe.  Hvalsoe pointed to success this
year in the signing of Federal legislation (S893) which elevates
copyright infringement, such as that engaged in by bulletin board
operators, to a felony with penalties upto $250,000/and up to five years
in prison.

     Nintendo of America Inc. is bassed in Redmond, Washington and is a
wholly owned subsidiary of Nintendo Co. Ltd., the worlds largest
manufacturer and marketer of video games.

                                 ########

                         Nintendo of America Inc.
                          4820 150th Avenue N.E.
                          Redmond, WA 98052-5111

  Telephone (206) 882-2040 * Telex 152933 * Telecopier (206) 882-3585

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       Edwardsville Teen Charged with theft
                       ------------------------------------
                        Belleville News Democrat 11/21/92

                                (Sec. B Pg. 1)

 Edwardsville-A $3,500 scheme to order computer parts through the mail
with filched credit card numbers fell apart when an Edwardsville
teen-ager overspent someone else's credit limit. Edwardsville police
alledged Friday.
 Edwardsville High School Senior and former cheerleader Jason
McDonald,17,of 201 S. Myrtle St. was arrested at school Friday morning
and charged by the Madison County state's attorney with felony theft,
authorities said.

 His arrest followed a three-week investigation in which police
intercepted two shipments of computer parts sent by an Ohio company
to a fictitous name and paid for with fraudulent credit card charges,
Detective David Bradford said Friday.

 Police are looking for a third shipment-belived to include three
computer keyboards, 20 modem and telephone facsimile cables and
various other components-that slipped past their net,Bradford said.

 Investigators now know of four total orders involving four different
credit card numbers and are working to determine whether there are
more,he said.

 McDonald's older brother,Christopher McDonald,was stabbed to death
in Feburary 1988 in a high profile murder case that led to a 15-year
prison sentance for a former classmate.Jason McDonald was at home with
his brother ,then an 18-year old honor student,when Christopher was
stabbed by Alec MacDonald,now 22.

 McDonald's father,Gary McDonald,lost a bid Nov. 3 for a Madison
County Board seat. He also campaigned briefly for county sheriff
in 1990.

 Bradford said the computer scam began to unravel early this month
when a credit card company informed an Edwardsville man that an order
to Midwest MicroPeripherals of Fletcher,Ohio,had exceeded his credit
limit.
 The credit card owner said,"No,not me," Bradford said.

 McDonald was in Madison County Jail in Edwardsville on Friday in
lieu of $30,000 bail set by Circuit Court Judge Charles V. Romani Jr.
Unless he is deemed eligible for the county's pretrial release
program,
 McDonald will have to post $3,000 cash or $60,000 in property to go
free until his trial.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [8]: IIRG Distribution Sites
              (or Gateways to Oblivion)



                   //////    //////     ///////     ////////
                    //        //       //    //    //
                   //        //       ///////     //   ////
                  //        //       //    //    //     //
               ////// *  //////  *  //     // * /////////




    IIRG World HQ:           Dark Shadows
                             19.2/9600 Baud HST
                             24 Hours a Day
                             1.2 Gigs Online
                             Sysop: Anubis
                             2 Nodes
                             (203)-PRI-VATE


   IIRG Distribution Site 1: Wired World BBS
                             INC Europe
                             TPC Courier (WHQ)
                             THP
                             IIRG Distribution Site
                             Sysop: Digital Justice
                             +39-89-254138

   IIRG Distribution Site 2: Cyberdyne Network Germany
                             United Forces
                             Sysop: E605
                             +49-5341-59004
                             +49-5341-54052

   IIRG Distribution Site 3: The Sanitarium
                             Sysops: Morbid Angel [INC/ACID]
                                     Spectral Illusion [ACID/RAZOR]
                             IIRG Distribution Site
                             ACID Member Board
                             INC Courier Board
                             RAZOR 1911 Courier Board
                             VISA World Headquarters
                             (817)PRI-VATE

   IIRG Distribution Site 4: The WareHouse
                             (203)-231-8589 14.4
                             (203)-231-8588 9600
                             OVER A GIG ONLINE
                             Sysop: Ionizer

   IIRG Distribution Site 5: The Rune Stone BBS
                             14.4k HST
                             Phantasys Home Board
                             Complete IIRG Archives
                             Invitation Only
                             (203)-PRI-VATE

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [9]: Phantasy Distribution Sites

 Phantasy's Distribution Site's are continually growing,we apologize if you
 called a board and didn't find the Mag. Network Distribution Sites will
 have the Issues first, we suggest calling one of them if a problem does
 arise.


  1. Lightning Systems
     (414) 363-4282
     Sixty Million Bytes OnLine
     USRobotics Dual Standard HST/V.32bis
     2400 thru 14.4k v.32bis/HST

  2. Sycamore Elite
     19,200-1200 Baud HST, 24 Hours a day
     (815) 895-5573

  3. The Works BBS
     (617-861-8976)
     Large Text Files BBS, 3500+ text files online.
     2400-300 Baud, 24 Hours a day

  4. Pipers Pit BBS
     19,200-9600 HST ONLY!!
     24 Hours a Day
     THG Distro Site 1300 Megs
     (203)PRI-VATE [2 Nodes]

  5. Blitzkrieg BBS                  TAP Magazine
     (502)-499-8933                  P.O. BOX 20264
     Home of TAP MAgazine            Louisville,KY. 40250-0264

  6. The Dickinson Nightlight
     (713)-337-1452
     Der WeltanSchauung Distro Site (World View Magazine)
     Phantasy Distro Site


  PHANTASY is also available on:

             1. RIPCO BBS   (312)528-5020

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                       PHANTASY(C) IIRG 1991,1992
                        May Odin Guide Your Way!
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

