      -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
      =                                                               =
      -             WELCOME TO THE TWENTY-FIRST ISSUE OF              -
      =                                                               =
      -                        -=>PHANTASY<=-                         -
      =                                                               =
      -               A PUBLICATION AND NEWSLETTER OF                 -
      =                                                               =
      -                             THE                               -
      =                        INTERNATIONAL                          =
      -                         INFORMATION                           -
      =                          RETRIEVAL                            =
      -                            GUILD                              -
      =                                                               =
      -        Hacking,Phreaking,Anarchy,Survivalism,Commentary       -
      =                                                               =
      -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

         Volume Number Five,Issue Number Twenty-One Dated 9/14/94

               Editor is Mercenary : iirg@cyberspace.net
                                     mercenar@works.com

             Article Submissions: The Mercenary/IIRG
                                  862 Farmington Avenue
                                  Suite 306
                                  Bristol,Ct 06010

           IIRG World Headquarters BBS: The Rune Stone
                                        14.4K HST Courier
                                        9600 V.32
                                        Private H/P/V, 6000+ Files
                                        Public  H/P    3000+ Files
                                        Public Telecom 7200+ Files
                                        (203)-832-8441 or 0-700-THE-IIRG
                                        NUP: cyberdeck

        Table of Discontents:

          [1] IIRG Update
              By: Mercenary

          [2] Self-Reliance and Preparedness (Chapter I)
              By: Thomas Icom/IIRG

          [3] ANI (Automatic Number Identification) - Part II
              By: Mercenary/IIRG

          [4] Frequencies of Interest, Part I
              Compiled By: Thomas Icom/IIRG

          [5] The Rumor Mill (Unconfirmed Rumors From the Underground)
              Edited By: Mercenary

              1. FED'z Set Up Sting Operation in Connecticut?

          [6] New Phreaking Method Only Needs FCC Approval
              (3 Carriers Already Approved)
              By: Anonymous

          [7] FOR THE PEOPLE
              Supplied By: Those Wacky Secret Service Agents
                           and other Federal Bunglers
              Edited by: Mercenary

              1. The FBI - Lost in CyberSpace
              2. Kevin Mitnik - Contact the FBI Please

          [8] PHANTASY TIDBITS: News and Views of Interest

              1. NCSA Starts Security Forum on CompuServe
              2. FCC Widens Spectrum for Wireless Data Devices
              3. IBM Attempts to Cash In On "Star-Trek"
              4. Blockbuster and Sega
              5. 3 Chinese Provinces to Upgrade Switches

          [9] SPECIAL REPORT - The IIRG Hacker Acronym List Rapers

         [10] Electronic Personal Organizers
              By: Thomas Icom/IIRG

         [11] Upcoming Conferences and Conventions

         [12] Listing of IIRG Distribution Sites

         [13] Listing of PHANTASY Distribution Sites

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

    OFFICIAL DISCLAIMER...

    All information in PHANTASY is from USER contributed material
    The Publishers and Editors of PHANTASY and THE IIRG disclaim
    any liability from any damages of any type that the reader or
    user of such information contained within this newsletter may encounter
    from the use of said information. All files are brought to you for
    entertainment purposes only! We also assume all information infringes
    no copyrights and hereby disclaim any liability.

    PHANTASY is (C) 1990 by The IIRG
    IIRG and INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION RETRIEVAL GUILD is (C) 1982

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [1]: IIRG Update
              By: Mercenary

  First of all, allow me to say its good to be back and we promise not to
 allow so much time between issues in the future.
 I have received tons of e-mail asking where the Hell we've been.

  Hopefully, I can clear that up for you now.

  On several extended trips, I became extremely sick and was laid up
 for several weeks. During this time the Rune Stone went down for a period of
 4 weeks as I was unable to take care of daily operations to the network.
 As my health has returned, so has the Rune Stone.

  Now apparently there has been some confusion about the systems status, well
 for those of you who haven't heard the Rune Stone is up and running at its
 same old number (203)-832-8441. However, the New User Password (NUP) has
 changed to CYBERDECK due to over publication in numerous mainstream computer
 magazines. If you were a registered user as of April 1,1994 then you should
 still be in the userbase.

  For those of you wanting to submit information or articles to the IIRG, you
 should send us mail at our group account iirg@cyberspace.net or you can use
 my standby account at mercenar@works.com for any correspondence. I'd strongly
 suggest you use iirg@cyberspace.net for a quicker reply.

  So far 1994 hasn't been a good year for our distribution sites, many have
 gone down and are in need of replacement. For those sysops who'd be
 interested in carrying Phantasy Magazine as an official distribution site,
 please contact me on the Rune Stone.

  In other IIRG news....

  Anubis should be publishing the next IIRG Technical Journal very shortly.
 At press time he still didn't know what the next Journal would cover, but
 I'm sure it'll be a good one.

  I'd like to thank everyone for their support during my illness, and we
 hope to make the rest of 1994 a memorable one in the H/P community.

                                         Mercenary/IIRG
                                         IIRG President

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [2]: Self-Reliance and Preparedness (Chapter I)
              By: Thomas Icom/IIRG


                        Self-Reliance and Preparedness
                                   Chapter I
                                  Who and Why?

     When most people think of "survivalism", they conjure up images of camo-
clad isolationists living in the "hills", stockpiling up an arsenal for "the
day after".  The reality of the situation is that for 90% of the people
practicing survivalism, or as they prefer; "self-reliance and preparedness",
the traditional survivalist image is about as alien a portrayal as you can
get.

     Your typical person who practices self-reliance and preparedness is just
an average individual who has the common sense to either make a few
preparations for future situations that could affect them negatively, or who
practice certain hobbies to partially alleviate their reliance on "the
system".  The family that raises a home garden and sells or cans their
surplus, the city dweller who practices anti-mugging techniques, individuals
who live in natural disaster-prone areas and have made plans to lessen
disaster effects, and people who know a good marketable trade and go into
business for themselves are all practicing self-reliance and preparedness.
Most practitioners of self-reliance and preparedness aren't even aware they
practice a definitive hobby.  To them it's just good common sense, and it is.

     So, why all the negative press?  The answer is simple.  People who
practice self-reliance and preparedness are less easily controlled than those
who rely on the system for their existence.  Take away some welfare
recipient's food stamps and weekly check, and they'll quickly fall in line.

     That isn't done so easily with a practitioner of self-reliance and
preparedness.  Because of this, the establishment will attack practitioners of
self-reliance and preparedness whenever possible.  That is the reason behind
gun control legislation, legislation against herbal and vitamin supplements,
draconian regulations that make it difficult for the small businessman to
operate profitably, and the large socialist "bread and circuses" programs the
government is pushing.  (Ancient Rome did the same thing to keep it's citizens
in line.)  It is also why "survivalists" and "computer hackers" are always
getting bad press; while mediocrity, stupidity, flagrant promiscuity, and
"following the crowd" are glamorized in the mass media.

     Sound incredible?  Not once you've studied the techniques used by
totalitarians to institute their control over the people.  In fact, those
techniques being used in our country today are considered standard operating
procedure.  They were used by Hitler and Stalin.  They are being used today.
They will be tried in the future.

     Despite all the subtle and obvious prejudice and persecution against
practitioners of self-reliance and preparedness, it remains a craft that is
quickly attracting people to it; people of high intelligence and common sense
who realize that when something goes wrong, no bureaucrat will come riding up
on a white stead to save them.  Those, in this day and age, who do believe
such nonsense are in for a ruse awakening; as such incidents as the LA riots,
Crown Heights (New York City) riots, Southeastern hurricanes, Midwestern river
flooding, increase in violent crime, worsening economy, thousands of layoffs,
and increasing totalitarian government measures have proven.

                          "This is How it All Begins"

     Self-reliance and preparedness is not for everyone.  Some people won't be
able to understand the concepts just presented to them.  Considering the
quality of the educational system these days, I'm not surprised that products
of it would consider the concept of self-reliance and preparedness alien to
them.  Some others are going to dismiss reality, and continue on with their
mundane existence.

     What is even more insidious however, is that some individuals, for
political reasons which should be obvious to the reader by now (I hope), will
violently disagree with me.  The typical vague accusations of insanity,
immoral activity, racism (Yes, it's true.  Despite the fact that race isn't
mentioned in this article, some idiot will throw in that accusation, along
with some half-assed explanation as to why.), and incitement to anarchy will
be loudly voiced.  Such activity is good, as it serves three purposes.  The
first is that the free and uninhibited discussion of ideas is necessary for
the function of a free society.  The second is that by opening their mouths
they automatically discredit themselves in the eyes of the intelligent.  The
third, as so often stated by the Brotherhood of the Sword and Rose, is that by
making themselves known it will make the job that will have to be done on the
"Night of the Rope" easier.  On that note, lest a gentle reader get bent out
of shape at the mention of hunting the opposition, it should be noted that the
most effective way to deal with something trying to destroy you is to destroy
it first.  As General George Patton once said, "You don't win a war by dying
for your country.  You win a war by making the other poor son of a bitch die
for his country."

     For those few remaining that have the intelligence, common sense, and
initiative to get involved in self-reliance and preparedness, the first thing
you need is the proper attitude.  You have to make the conscious decision to
begin to take charge of your life, and to gain your own self-determination and
reliance from those who've stolen it from you.  Once you have accepted the
fact that you are responsible for yourself, the rest is easy.  You'll also
find it much more satisfying to be a free spirit, soaring above the mundane;
knowing that you, instead of a faceless other, have control over your future.

     You need the desire to learn and broaden your horizons.  As the famous
Special Forces officer Larry Dring once said "It's what between your ears that
counts."  James Madison also said something similar, "A people who mean to be
their own governors must arm themselves with the power knowledge gives."

     You need to have a positive outlook.  Self-reliance and preparedness is
the art of living, not avoiding death.  While you should not view the world
through rose-colored glasses, neither should you resign yourself to doom.  The
proper outlook is somewhere in the middle.  You should acknowledge how bad
things are, and then say "Ok, now lets succeed against said problems", as
opposed to refusing to face the reality of a bad situation, or tackling a
problem with the objective of "avoiding defeat" or "minimizing losses".  When
faced with a situation always play to win, not lose or draw.  It's like the
old parable as to whether a glass is half empty or half full.

     Some people may find the psychological pep talk redundant or unnecessary.
I disagree.  You could be the most knowledgeable individual in the world on
self-reliance and preparedness, but if you have a negative attitude, that
knowledge is worthless.  A proper attitude is even more important than
education!  If you disagree with me, I only suggest you try adjusting your
attitude to a more positive outlook for a while, and then check to see if you
notice a difference in yourself.  You'll find that once you have the right
attitude down, your experiences will be much smoother.  You'll also find that
you'll have more confidence and generally feel better.

                                    "To know, to will, to dare, to be silent."
                                                         -Thomas Icom/IIRG
                                                       May Odin guide your way!

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [3]: ANI (Automatic Number Identification) - Part II
              By: Mercenary/IIRG

  In a previous issue of Phantasy, we published a toll-free number that
 was used as a demonstration of ANI. Well, like all good things - the
 toll-free number suffered a quick demise. Since then, we've received
 numerous requests for another 800 number or any other way that hackers
 could obtain the ANAC number for their area.
  Numerous trade publications have jumped on the band wagon, especially
 Nuts & Volts which has most recently as their July issue had articles
 on ANI. In Nuts & Volts they've published the PHUC-ANI as I like to call
 it, since it first appeared in a PHUC text file.
  That number is 1073214049889664, which has been in circulation for some
 time now. They've also published a Centel Communication Number which
 has already gone defunct.
  However another 800 ANI number that is still available is not even
 meant to be one. The Duke Power Company Automated Outage System at
 (800)769-3766 will read back to you the phone number from which you are
 calling if you call to report a power outage or pole light out.
  Since 1-800 ANI numbers are becoming few and far between, you will most
 likely be forced to use a local ANAC (Automatic Number Announcement Circuit).
 Most recently, an excellent ANAC list is being developed in the #Hack F.A.Q.
 by Voyager or more properly will@gnu.ai.mit.edu. What follows here is his
 list with a few additions and corrections of our own. We hope this helps
 all of you who have been begging for this information.

  NPA  ANAC number      Comments
  ---  ---------------  ---------------------------------------------
  201  958              Hackensack/Jersey City/Newark/Paterson, NJ
  202  958-xxxx         District of Columbia
  203  970              CT (All)
  204  644-xxxx         Manitoba
  205  908-222-2222     Birmingham, AL
  206  411              WA /* Not US West */
  207  958              ME (All)
  209  830              Stockton, CA
  212  958              Manhattan, NY
  213  114              Los Angeles, CA
  213  1223             Los Angeles, CA /* some 1AESS switches */
  213  211-2345         Los Angeles, CA /* English response */
  213  211-2346         Los Angeles, CA /* DTMF response */
  213  61056            Los Angeles, CA
  214  790              Dallas, TX /* GTE */
  214  970-222-2222     Dallas, TX
  214  970-611-1111     Dallas, TX /* Southwestern Bell */
  215  410-xxxx         Philadelphia, PA
  217  200-xxx-xxxx     Champaign-Urbana/Springfield, IL
  301  958-9968         Hagerstown/Rockville, MD
  305  200-222-2222     Ft. Lauderdale/Key West/Miami, FL
  309  200-xxx-xxxx     Peoria/Rock Island, IL
  310  114              Long Beach, CA /* on many GTE switches */
  310  1223             Long Beach, CA /* some 1AESS switches */
  310  211-2345         Long Beach, CA /* English response */
  310  211-2346         Long Beach, CA /* DTMF response */
  312  1-200-5863       Chicago, IL
  312  200-xxx-xxxx     Chicago, IL
  312  290              Chicago, IL
  313  200-200-2002     Ann Arbor/Dearborn/Detroit, MI
  313  200-222-2222     Ann Arbor/Dearborn/Detroit, MI
  313  200-xxx-xxxx     Ann Arbor/Dearborn/Detroit, MI
  313  200200200200200  Ann Arbor/Dearborn/Detroit, MI
  314  511              Columbia/Jefferson City, MO
  317  310-222-2222     Indianapolis/Kokomo, IN
  317  743-1218         Indianapolis/Kokomo, IN
  401  222-2222         RI (All)
  402  311              Lincoln, NE
  403  311              Alberta, Yukon and N.W. Territory
  403  908-222-2222     Alberta, Yukon and N.W. Territory
  403  999              Alberta, Yukon and N.W. Territory
  404  311              Atlanta, GA
  404  940-xxx-xxxx     Atlanta, GA
  405  897              Enid/Oklahoma City, OK
  407  200-222-2222     Orlando/West Palm Beach, FL
  408  300-xxx-xxxx     San Jose, CA
  408  760              San Jose, CA
  408  940              San Jose, CA
  409  951              Beaumont/Galveston, TX
  409  970-xxxx         Beaumont/Galveston, TX
  410  200-555-1212     Annapolis/Baltimore, MD
  410  811              Annapolis/Baltimore, MD
  412  711-6633         Pittsburgh, PA
  412  711-4411         Pittsburgh, PA
  412  999-xxxx         Pittsburgh, PA
  413  958              Pittsfield/Springfield, MA
  413  200-555-5555     Pittsfield/Springfield, MA
  414  330-2234         Fond du Lac/Green Bay/Milwaukee/Racine, WI
  415  200-555-1212     San Francisco, CA
  415  211-2111         San Francisco, CA
  415  2222             San Francisco, CA
  415  640              San Francisco, CA
  415  760-2878         San Francisco, CA
  415  7600-2222        San Francisco, CA
  419  311              Toledo, OH
  502  997-555-1212     Frankfort/Louisville/Paducah/Shelbyville, KY
  503  611              Portland, OR  /* not all parts of town */
  508  958              Fall River/New Bedford/Worchester, MA
  508  200-222-1234     Fall River/New Bedford/Worchester, MA
  508  200-222-2222     Fall River/New Bedford/Worchester, MA
  508  220              Brighton
  508  200-220-1234     Brookline
  508  200-4444         Needham/Dover
  508  220              Wellesley
  508  200-222-2222     Newton
  508  200-2222         Watertown
  509  560              Spokane/Walla Walla/Yakima, WA
  512  200-222-2222     Austin/Corpus Christi, TX
  512  830              Austin/Corpus Christi, TX
  512  970-xxxx         Austin/Corpus Christi, TX
  514  320-xxxx         Montreal, Quebec
  515  5463             Des Moines, IA
  516  958              Hempstead/Long Island, NY
  516  968              Hempstead/Long Island, NY
  517  200-222-2222     Bay City/Jackson/Lansing, MI
  517  200200200200200  Bay City/Jackson/Lansing, MI
  518  997              Albany/Schenectady/Troy, NY
  518  998              Albany/Schenectady/Troy, NY
  602  593-0809         Phoenix, AZ
  602  593-6017         Phoenix, AZ
  602  593-7451         Phoenix, AZ
  603  200-222-2222     NH (All)
  606  997-555-1212     Ashland/Winchester, KY
  607  993              Binghamton/Elmira, NY
  609  958              Atlantic City/Camden/Trenton/Vineland, NJ
  612  511              Minneapolis/St.Paul, MN
  615  200200200200200  Nashville, TN
  615  830              Nashville, TN
  616  200-222-2222     Battle Creek/Grand Rapids/Kalamazoo, MI
  617  200-222-1234     Boston, MA
  617  200-222-2222     Boston, MA
  617  200-444-4444     Boston, MA /* Woburn, MA */
  617  220-2622         Boston, MA
  617  958              Boston, MA
  618  200-xxx-xxxx     Alton/Cairo/Mt.Vernon, IL
  708  1-200-xxxx       Chicago/Elgin, IL
  713  970-xxxx         Houston, TX
  714  211-2121         Anaheim, CA /* GTE */
  716  511              Buffalo/Niagra Falls/Rochester, NY /* Rochester Tel */
  717  958              Harrisburg/Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, PA
  718  958              Bronx/Brooklyn/Queens/Staten Island, NY
  802  2-222-222-2222   Vermont (All)
  802  200-222-2222     Vermont (All)
  805  830              San Luis Obispo, CA
  806  970-xxxx         Amarillo/Lubbock, TX
  810  200200200200200  Michigan
  812  410-555-1212     Evansville, IN
  815  200-xxx-xxxx     La Salle/Rockford, IL
  815  290              La Salle/Rockford, IL
  817  211              Ft. Worth/Waco, TX
  817  970-611-1111     Ft. Worth/Waco, TX  /* Southwestern Bell */
  818  1223             Pasadena, CA /* some 1AESS switches */
  818  211-2345         Pasadena, CA /* English response */
  818  211-2346         Pasadena, CA /* DTMF response */
  906  200-222-2222     Marquette/Sault Ste. Marie, MI
  908  958              New Brunswick, NJ
  910  311              Fayetteville/Greensboro/Raliegh/Winston-Salem, NC
  914  990-1111         Peekskill/Poughkeepsie/White Plains/Yonkers, NY
  915  970-xxxx         Abilene/El Paso, TX
  919  711              Durham, NC


 Canada:

  306  115              Saskatchewan, Canada
  416  410-xxxx         Toronto, Ontario
  416  997-xxxx         Toronto, Ontario
  519  320-xxxx         London, Ontario
  604  1116             British Columbia, Canada
  604  1211             British Columbia, Canada
  604  211              British Columbia, Canada
  613  320-2232         Ottawa, Ontario
  705  320-xxxx         Saulte Ste. Marie, Ontario

 Australia:

  +61  03-552-4111      Victoria 03 area
  +61  19123            All major capital cities


-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [4]: Frequencies of Interest, Part I
              Compiled By: Thomas Icom/IIRG

All frequencies are listed in Mhz.

        1. Relay Press:
           Used by newspapers and press associations.

173.2250        173.2750        173.3250        173.3750        452.9625
452.9750        452.98750       453.0000

        2. Remote Broadcast Pickup Communications:
           Used for TV news crews, traffic reports, "on the scene"
           communications, etc.

25.8700 - 26.4700       161.6400 - 161.7600     166.2500        170.1500
450.0500 - 450.9500     455.0500 - 455.9500

        3. Telephone Maintenance:
           Used by landline, mobile phone, and telegraph companies for
           operational purposes.

35.1600                 43.1600                 151.9850        158.3400
451.1750 - 451.6875     462.4625 - 462.5250

        4. Alarm Companies:

460.9000        460.9250        460.9500        460.9750

        5. Low Power and Itinerant Business Channels:
           Often used by security forces, surveillance teams, restaurant
           order windows and for other interesting purposes.

27.4900         27.5100         27.5300         30.8400         33.1200
33.1400         33.4000         35.0200         35.0400         42.9800
43.0400         151.5050        151.6250        154.5700        154.6000
158.4000        457.5250        457.5500        457.5750        457.6000
460.6875 - 462.5125     462.7625 - 462.9125     463.2125 -  464.9875
(12.5 Khz. channels)    (12.5 Khz. channels)    (12.5 Khz. channels)
467.7500 - 467.92500

        6. Wireless Microphones

169.4450        169.5050        170.2450        170.3050        171.0450
171.1050        171.8450        171.9050



-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [5]: The Rumor Mill (Unconfirmed Rumors From the Underground)
              Edited By: Mercenary

               Fed'z Set Up Sting Operation in Connecticut?

  Recent local rumors have been circulating in Connecticut that the fed'z
 have set up some form of sting operation in the form of a BBS or service
 here in Connecticut. The IIRG is currently investigating this rumor and
 hopes to have the full story (if there is one), for our next issue.
  Preliminary inquiries seem to confirm the presence of such an operation
 but we will reserve releasing any more information until Phantasy 22.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [6]: New Phreaking Method Only Needs FCC Approval
              (3 Carriers Already Approved)
              By: Anonymous

   In their ever increasing urge to dominate the world, US service providers
  have devised a new method of supposedly increasing their profits.
   This all new clever brain-storm is called "International Callback".
  A customer in another country would place a call to an automated number in
  the United States. The call to the automated system would be allowed to ring
  a specified number of times and then the caller would hang up.
   In this way the caller is not billed for the call and the automated system
  will dial the caller back by using ANI. When the foreign customer picks up
  the call from the system he will be provided with the US dialtone and have
  access to much lower rates, (Or that's what the US providers have planned).
   Now not knowing the whole systems makeup and security, I can obviously see
  gaping holes for taking advantage of this system.
   However, in preliminary experiments we've devised one method that already
  appears to work on Discount Call International's system. Here's how we
  implemented our scheme.

  Equipment:

  1 Telematrix Call Diverter                    (California Digital $217.00)
  1 Can Wrench                                  (Jensen or Hardware Store)
  1 Phone Can                                   (Provided by Friendly Telco)
  1 Beige Box                                   (Homemade,Bought,Appropriated)
  2 Phone Lines                                 (Provided by Friendly Telco)
  3 Wily Hackers                                (Sober and Clear Headed)
  1 Payphone (that accepts incoming calls)      (Provided by Friendly Telco)
  1 Laptop w/modem and acoustic coupler         (Should Have 1 by Now)


  The first step in our plan was extremely simple, we already had all the
 equipment we needed and knew of a nice isolated phone can.
  As many of you have probably already guessed our method, we wont go into
 much detail. But by placing the call diverter inside the phone can and
 placing the dial-in line on the target business and the dial-out line on
 another one of their lines, 60% of our plan was completed.
  One of us then beige boxed DCI on the dial-in line and then hung up.
 DCI then dialed our intercepted dial-in line and our call diverter sent the
 call to our waiting hacker at the payphone. At this point he had DCI's dial
 tone and used his laptop to hook into a system he would never dare call
 from home. Now most of you probably don't have the necessary equipment we
 used. But, I'm sure you can improvise. Thank you FCC!!!

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [7]: FOR THE PEOPLE
              Supplied By: Those Wacky Secret Service Agents
                           and other Federal Bunglers
              Edited by: Mercenary

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     The FBI - Lost in CyberSpace

  As the field of communications technology grows, the FBI and other
 law-enforcement wiretappers are quickly lagging behind.
 Fiber optics, ATM, and convergence go beyond their current wiretap
 capabilities.
  Cellular phones are also progressing beyond the FBI's capabilities.
 They reported 183 cases on cellular phones last year where taps on
 cellular phones just didn't work.
  The FBI is currently trying to get the telecom industry to make their
 systems wiretap capable, but the industry is so far resisting their
 efforts.
  We'd urge you to monitor these bills as they appear before congress,
 if left unchecked the FBI and other Federal Agencies will attempt to
 force more "Big Brother" policies down our throats.
  Taps should be on beer kegs, not on our phones.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     Kevin Mitnik - Contact the FBI, Please...

  In March at the Conference on Computers, Freedom, and Privacy 1994, those
 friendly boys from the Federal Bureau of Incineration were at their keystone
 cop best. Four FBI agents raided the room of a 22 year old hacker and escorted
 him downtown. After fingerprinting and photographing the defenseless hacker,
 the FBI faxed the photo to Washington and learned that the hacker was not
 Kevin Mitnick who they were attempting to apprehend. The poor hackers last
 name was the same as the handle used by Mitnick.
  Shortly after this botched attempt to apprehend Mitnick, the FBI detained
 another hacker as he left an elevator to attend a lecture. After pulling out
 his license the FBI found out that he was also not Kevin Mitnick.
  The following morning, a message appeared on the Conference's message board:
 "KEVIN MITNICK, CALL THE FBI". The FBI gave a very,very lame excuse about
 their illegal detaining of the innocent individuals the following evening.
  Unconfirmed rumors circulating on the last day of the conference stated that
 a hacker had broken into the hotels computer and left a message on James
 Settles (Head of the FBI Computer Crime Squads) hotel bill.
  The message was supposedly, "Happy Retirement". Mr Settles apparently
 retired on April 1,1994.
  As for the reason the FBI was once again looking for Kevin Mitnick, we can
 only wonder at this time. However, Kevin if your not apprehended by the
 time you may hear or read of this article. Good Luck.......

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [8] PHANTASY TIDBITS: News and Views of Interest

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 NCSA STARTS SECURITY FORUM ON COMPUSERVE

  In a surprising move, the National Computer Security Association has started
 a forum on CompuServe. The forum will be dedicated to such topics as, PC and
 LAN security, Unix/Internet security, anti-virus support, and computer ethics.
  The forum can be accessed by entering GO NCSAFORUM at any CompuServe command
 prompt. The NCSA can be contacted via E-mail at 75300,2557@compuserve.com

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

               FCC WIDENS SPECTRUM FOR WIRELESS DATA DEVICES

  The FCC has reassigned the unlicensed wireless data users to 10MHz of
 bandwidth in the 1.910 to 1.930MHz spectrum. They've also assigned another
 10MHz bandwidth to unlicensed voice devices. The FCC is also supposed to make
 available three blocks of 30MHz spectrum each in major cities. These blocks
 will all be located in the 1,850 to 1.990MHz spectrum.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   IBM ATTEMPTS TO CASH IN ON "STAR-TREK"

  IBM is developing a new generation of PDA's (Personal Digital Assistants)
 that are being code-named "Tricorder". IBM is trying to keep a veil of
 secrecy on the project because they have not yet negotiated a deal with
 Paramount to use the brand name "Tricorder". If this is like any other
 standard IBM project, you might as well set Phasers on Kill. Because that's
 what they do to most projects.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          BLOCKBUSTER AND SEGA

  Are planning to distribute Sega's games on reloadable flash memory
 cartridges. All you console pirates get ready for the next generation.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                3 CHINESE PROVINCES TO UPGRADE SWITCHES

  The Chinese provinces of Tianjin, Shaanxi, and Hebei are upgrading their
 central offices to Northern Telecom DMS-100 switches. Chinese hackers are
 rumored to be anxiously awaiting their arrival for experimentation.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

  Section [9]: SPECIAL REPORT - The IIRG Hacker Acronym List Rapers

  Most recently, a rash of Acronym lists have been appearing that are direct
 rip-offs of the IIRG's Hacker Acronym List. We've never had a problem with
 any group or individual incorporating IIRG material into their work as long
 as the IIRG is acknowledged in the credits or program.
  Apparently some groups and individuals have forgotten this and have been
 incorporating IIRG material into their files and not properly crediting
 the group. Like any good author, Mercenary has incorporated several fake
 acronyms into the list which are known only to him.

  However at this time we'd like to look at one group that has used the
 IIRG's Acronym list and has properly credited the IIRG.
  MuTaNT has used our list as well as some additions of their own to
 create the HaCKeRS ACRoNYM TRaNSLaToR PPE for PCBoard 15.1+.
 They have created a very nice ppe that allows you to look up acronyms
 online. All PCBoard sysops are encouraged to add this fine PPE to your
 system.

  On the other side of the coin is a list put out by D. Leria on 7/23/94.
 This acronym list is one of the most blatant rip-offs of the IIRG's list
 that we've ever seen with no mention of the IIRG in the credits.
  If your gonna use our material, put us in the credits.
  This isn't the first time this has happened, we've got about 5 lists on
 the Rune Stone that are direct copies of the IIRG's list from other
 groups that have our telltale fake acronyms in their lists.
  Although this provides us with a good laugh from time to time,
 we may be forced to release our next list in a non-ascii format.

                                                     The IIRG

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

  Section [10]: Electronic Personal Organizers
                By: Thomas Icom/IIRG

    Most hobbyists keep a "hack book" to record information learned during
hacking sessions.  While writing things down for easier recall is a good thing,
there are certain types of information which could prove to be disastrous
should they be discovered in something as unsecured as a notebook.
    Some have taken their sensitive information and stored it in encrypted
form on their machines.  While this is a good technique when employed with a
secure algorithm, it makes ready accessibility and use in the field a problem
unless one has a small laptop or palmtop ($$$).
    A while ago, the electronic personal organizer came onto the market.  This
device fit into a pocket, and allowed one to store phone numbers and short
memos.  Some had password protection built in for secure information storage.
Unfortunately, these early models were expensive, limited in storage capacity,
and unreliable.  These problems have been solved with the new models, some of
which offer as much as 64K memory, and file transfer capability to/from a PC.
    The Royal "DM" series electronic personal organizers are representative
models.  There are three different models which offer different memory
capacities (DM118: 18K, DM134: 34K, DM138 38K).  The prices are reasonable;
starting at $25 for the DM118.  They have the following features:

    - Password Protection
    - Three phone number databases
    - 12/24 hour clock with multiple time zones and alarms
    - "Memo book"
    - Calender
    - metric/english measurement and currency conversion
    - 10 digit calculator
    - Schedule book linked to clock alarm
    - Infra-red wireless link for data transfer between a PC or other DM unit
    - Reset button for quick data erasure

    These devices are perfect "hackbooks" for storage of such proprietary data
as phone numbers, account numbers, passwords, access codes, names, frequencies,
and other information you want to keep from prying eyes.  While 18K might not
seem like much, it's plenty for phone numbers and similar information of a
temporary nature.  The password protection allows for up to an 8 character
alpha-numeric password, and is adequate for 90% of your security needs.
    Yes, I heard about how the password protection on one unit was cracked by
Scotland Yard who opened one up without killing the power, and managed to
directly access the unit's RAM.  Since you're naturally going to follow my
recommendation of being a law abiding citizen who doesn't do anything illegal,
I doubt you'll ever run into that situation.
    It now appears, however, that law abiding citizens are currently being
targeted by certain totalitarian types who don't like them exercising their
constitutional rights.  A recent incident that comes to mind were those people
who protested the building of half-way houses in their neighborhood, and were
subsequently harassed by HUD who subpoenaed their personal records, filed
"discrimination" charges against them, and court-ordered them to provide names
of friends and associates so HUD could also "investigate" additional people who
"might be practicing discrimination".
    If you feel that such an attack might be a problem; regularly back-up the
data onto a PC, encrypt it with some insanely secure algorithm, and when you
run into a problem requiring you to do a data-wipe quicker than the reset
button offers; break the unit in half and be glad you're safe and only out $25.


-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

  Section [11]: Upcoming Conferences and Conventions

DATE:      09/19/94
TITLE:     Practical Methods for Information Systems Risk Analysis
LOCATION:  NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
SPONSOR:   CSI Seminars at Government Sites
CONTACT:   Computer Security Institute
ADDRESS:   600 Harrison Street
CITY_ST:   San Francisco, CA 94107
PHONE:     (415) 905-2626


DATE:      10/04/94
TITLE:     UNIX EXPO '94
LOCATION:  New York City
SPONSOR:   UniDirect, Computer ResellerNews
CONTACT:   UNIX EXPO
ADDRESS:   P.O. Box 1422
CITY_ST:   Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632
PHONE:     800-829-3976


DATE:      10/11/94
TITLE:     17th National Computer Security Conference
LOCATION:  Baltimore, MD
SPONSOR:   NCSC & NIST
CONTACT:   NCS Conference Secretary, APS XI
ADDRESS:   National Computer Security Center
CITY_ST:   Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6000
PHONE:     (301) 975-2775


DATE:      11/02/94
TITLE:     2nd ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security
LOCATION:  Fairfax, VA
SPONSOR:   ACM SIGSAC
CONTACT:   Ravi Sandhu
ADDRESS:   George Mason University, ISSE Dept., M/S 4A4
CITY_ST:   Fairfax, VA 22030
PHONE:     (703) 993-1659


DATE:      11/07/94
TITLE:     European Symposium on Research in Computer Security
LOCATION:  Brighton, United Kingdom
SPONSOR:   IMA, AFCET, BCS Security Special Interest Group, and CERT-ONERA
CONTACT:   Pamela Irving, Conference Officer
ADDRESS:   Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications, 16 Nelson St.
CITY_ST:   ESSEX SS1 1EF, UK
PHONE:     dieter@dcs.rhbnc.ac.uk


DATE:      12/05/94
TITLE:     Introduction to Computer Security
LOCATION:  NIST, Gaithersburg, MD
SPONSOR:   CSI Seminars at Government Sites
CONTACT:   Computer Security Institute
ADDRESS:   600 Harrison Street
CITY_ST:   San Francisco, CA 94107
PHONE:     (415) 905-2626


DATE:      12/05/94
TITLE:     10th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference
LOCATION:  Orlando, FL
SPONSOR:   Aerospace Computer Security Associates & ACM
CONTACT:   Ann Marmor-Squires
ADDRESS:   TRW Systems Division, 1 Federal Systems Park Dr.
CITY_ST:   Fairfax, VA 22030
PHONE:     (703) 803-5503


-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [12]: IIRG Distribution Sites
               (or Gateways to Oblivion)

                   //////    //////     ///////     ////////
                    //        //       //    //    //
                   //        //       ///////     //   ////
                  //        //       //    //    //     //
               ////// *  //////  *  //     // * /////////


    IIRG World HQ:           The Rune Stone BBS
                             14.4k HST
                             Phantasy's Home Board
                             Complete IIRG Archives 14000+ Files
                             (203)-832-8441
                             NUP: Cyberdeck

   IIRG Distribution Site 1: Deadcity
                             Sysop: RoughNeck
                             Australia
                             Criminal Intent HQ
                             +61-3-417-2060

   IIRG Distribution Site 2: Alliance BBS
                             (612)-251-8596
                             (Originally ASU Underground in Tempe AZ)
                             355+ mb H/P/A/UFO and others on CD-ROM
                             IIRG Distro Site

   IIRG Distribution Site 3: Hollow Tree Productions
                             Sysop: Phantasm
                             TWA Distro
                             IIRG Phantasy Distro
                             Extreme*Net
                             (313)-EXE-TREME

   IIRG Distribution Site 4: Unauthorised Access Uk
                             Online 10.00pm-7.00am GMT
                             +44-(0)636-708063
                             3oo/12oo/24oo/96oo/14.4k HST
                             Established 1990
                             British Underground Guild WHQ
                             SysOp: Phantasm

   IIRG Distribution Site 5: The Black Lodge
                             LodgeNet Member Site
                             Sysop: The Brit
                             (5o8)-PRI-VATE

   IIRG Distribution Site 6: Kaotic Attractor
                             Sysop: Mr Wyzard
                             (5o8)-PRI-VATE

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [13]: Phantasy Distribution Sites

 Phantasy's Distribution Site's are continually changing,we apologize if you
 called a board and didn't find the Mag. Network Distribution Sites will
 have the Issues first, we suggest calling one of them if a problem does
 arise.


  1. Lightning Systems
     (414) 363-4282
     200 Million Bytes OnLine
     USRobotics Dual Standard HST/V.32bis
     2400 thru 14.4k v.32bis/HST

  2. The Works BBS
     Waffle Net v1.65
     [617]/861-8976
     3/12/24/96/14400b 7dy/24hr N,8,1
     Lexington, MA
     200 Megabytes of Storage
     99.44% pure textfiles
     Remote cDc Node (Very remote)

  3. Uncensored Communications
     Cybertek Magazine SIG
     (914)-761-6877

  4. The Computer Laboratory Underground 'puternet
     Phone: +1.515.232.7631
     No warez, No codez, No ratios, No hassles.
     Phantasy Distro Site

 Phantasy is also available on these systems,

           Ripco II BBS      The Hell Pit     Cybernetic Violence
          (312)-528-5020    (708)-459-7267      (514)-PRI-VATE

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                  PHANTASY(C) IIRG 1991,1992,1993,1994
                        May Odin Guide Your Way!
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
       May You Be Feasting and Drinking in Valhalla For a Full Night
              Before the Christian God Knows You're Dead
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-


