      -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
      =                                                               =
      -              WELCOME TO THE FIFTEENTH ISSUE OF                -
      =                                                               =
      -                        -=>PHANTASY<=-                         -
      =                                                               =
      -               A PUBLICATION AND NEWSLETTER OF                 -
      =                                                               =
      -                             THE                               -
      =                        INTERNATIONAL                          =
      -                         INFORMATION                           -
      =                          RETRIEVAL                            =
      -                            GUILD                              -
      =                                                               =
      -        Hacking,Phreaking,Anarchy,Survivalism,Commentary       -
      =                                                               =
      -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

         Volume Number Four,Issue Number Fifteen Dated 03/16/93
               Editor is Mercenary : mercenar@works.UUCP

             Article Submissions: The Mercenary/IIRG
                                  862 Farmington Avenue
                                  Suite 306
                                  Bristol,Ct 06010

           IIRG World Headquarters BBS: The Rune Stone
                                        14.4K HST
                                        Invitation Only
                                        All H/P/A, 2500+ Files
                                        (203)-PRI-VATE


        Table of Discontents:


          [1] An Open Letter "To Whom it May Concern"
              By: Mercenary

          [2] Ripco II BBS (Closing Temporarily)
              By: Dr Ripco

          [3] Lets Get This Right
              By: The IIRG

          [4] FOR THE PEOPLE
              Supplied By: Bulletin Boards Across the Country
              Edited by: Mercenary

                1. FBI Shuts Bulletin Board - Copyright Probe Begun
                2. RUSTY & EDIE'S BBS Seized By the FBI
                3. FBI Undecided Whether to Investigate Users of Closed BBS
                4. ACLU Challenges FBI'S Closing 'RUSTY & EDIE'S' BBS in OHIO
                5. RUSTY AND EDIE's RETURNS!!!

          [5] The Rumor Mill (Unconfirmed Rumors From the Underground)
              Edited By: Mercenary

                1. Be on the Look-out for - Mutant-X
                2. PKWare Goes Bankrupt - A Great HOAX!!

          [6] PHANTASY TIDBITS: News and Views of Interest

                1. Raid Collects 15 Tons of Counterfeit Microsoft Software
                2. DIGITAL'S Eastern Restart Center Keeps
                   Customers in Business After WTC Explosion
                3. U.S. AIR FORCE to Install 350 ALPHA AXP Workstations
                4. OFFWORLD BBS Seized In St.Louis
                5. STEVE JACKSON GAMES vs. U.S. SECRET SERVICE - The Trial

          [7] Listing of IIRG Distribution Sites

          [8] Listing of PHANTASY Distribution Sites

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

    OFFICIAL DISLAIMER...

    All information in PHANTASY is from USER contributed material
    The Publishers and Editors of PHANTASY and THE IIRG disclaim
    any liability from any damages of any type that the reader or
    user of such information contained within this newsletter may encounter
    from the use of said information. All files are brought to you for
    entertainment purposes only! We also assume all information infringes
    no copyrights and hereby disclaim any liability.

    PHANTASY is (C) 1990 by The IIRG
    IIRG and INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION RETRIEVAL GUILD is (C) 1982

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [1]: An Open Letter "To Whom it May Concern"
              By: Mercenary

  To Whom it may Concern,

   Well, Today is the ninth of March 1993. And just by chance I happened to
  call in Sick to work today because I had a slight touch of the flu.
   So after calling in around 6am and talking to my supervisor, I did the
  noble thing and crashed for several more hours. Around 9am I was awakened by
  a single ring of the telephone. No problem I thought, Probably just a wrong
  number and got up and did my morning ritual.
   After showering, and grabbing a liquid breakfast of Mt. Dew, I retired to
  the bedroom and watched "The Beverly Hillbillies" for a 1/2 hour.
   Now after watching my morning dose of mind-rot, I headed to the computer
  room for a leisurely afternoon of programming and catching up on some E-mail.
   After running my standard system security check, I went to check my phone
  line, (NOTE: Mercenary keeps a Modified Tap-detector on his line) and to
  my suprise I got a report of an error condition existing.
   Now this didn't immediatly bother me as it was quite windy out and I
  thought maybe the phone line was down. So I proceeded to start checking my
  phone lines and got no-dial tone. So I did a quick check of all my phones
  and found no "Internal" problem.
   So I jumped on my buddies line and reported to SNET's automated repair
  line that I had no dial-tone and I was promised the repair would be done
  by 8pm.
   No sooner than I hung up the phone, I checked my phone line again and
  noticed that I had a dial tone but my TAP detector was still activated and
  reporting an "Outside" intrusion.
   So after checking my local junction box for any signs of "Tampering", I
  still found no sign of any "Local" problem.
   Well as always, SNET took several hours to respond to my complaint and by
  the time the technician finally arrived, I was fuming mad but didn't lose
  my cool.
  After social-engineering the technician with several "Molsons", he came to
  the same conclusion that I did, there was no "Internal" problem inside my
  building, but a short or problem on the line.
  Now this may seem like no big deal to some of you, but let me explain.
  We have 5 lines in my apartment and just by "coincidence" the only problem
  was on my private line.
   After about another 1/2 hour the tech knocked on my door and informed me
  that yes, my hunch was correct, and yes someone had tampered with my line
  on the pole.
   To protect myself a little here, I won't write how we solved this problem
  but I will respond with the following,

   "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
    prohibitting the free excercise thereof; or abbridging the freedom of
    speech or of the Press; or of the right of the people peaceably to
    assemble, and to petition the Goverment for a redress of grievances"

   So to whatever agency or organization that felt it necessary to wire-tap
   my telephone line, I say to you that it will in no way stop me from
   being the Editor of this online-magazine.

                                         "Hello??, Anyone Listening ??

                                              Mercenary/IIRG

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [2]: Ripco II BBS (Closing Temporarily)
              By: Dr Ripco

>From   : DR. RIPCO
Date   : Sun  3-07-93,  5:10 pm
To     : All
Subject: Ripco Closing


 This is a bit difficult to do but it's got to be said.

 There's a pretty good chance not many people will see this message so if you
 can capture it and pass it along, you would be doing everyone a favor.

 Technically the board isn't closing and going away forever but some major
 changes are going to take place shortly and for all practical reasons, it
 probably isn't going to exist as you now know it.

 For about the last year, myself and several indivduals on the system have
 been toying with the idea of getting the system on Internet. If you are not
 familar with Internet, it's a world-wide network of computer systems which
 basically makes a 100 line 6 gig private bbs look like a C-64 running off
 one floppy.

 Although I have no personal access to it and have to admit I never have been
 on there to play around, it doesn't take much looking to figure out that it
 is a unbeliveable resource of information and communication. There just is
 not anything to compare it to.

 The problem however is public access to it. Most of you that have used
 Internet find out about that hard lesson sooner or later. Chicago seems to
 be one of the few places in the area where public access is a challenge.

 I'd like to change that.

 For the last year we have been tinkering with trying to interface the needed
 software to the main bbs program you see here. This hasn't worked out too
 well. We've looked over other alternatives but have now reached the
 conclusion it's a hopeless cause.

 A dos based system running a dos based program just doesn't mix with UNIX
 all that well.

 Thus to continue on with this project it has come to the point of dropping
 dos completely and switching the system over to UNIX completely. This means
 the program and the bbs as you see it will be dumped.

 Not to get your hopes up, but what will be used to replace it will look like
 garbage initially. It'll be difficult to use and hard to figure out unless
 you have had some prior UNIX experience.

 This change-over looks like it may start this week of March 7th.

 Sorry for not being able to relate this information sooner but it's been
 sort of a nightmare just trying to figure out if there was a chance in hell
 of it happening in the first place.

 Although I cannot be more specific on the new system at this time I do want
 to say that Ripco ][ will be put into a suspended state, in case everything
 falls through and the project is abondoned, I promise to put things back to
 the way it was.

 So this isn't quite goodbye, just a vacation of sorts.


                                               Dr. Ripco
                                               Sysop of Ripco ][

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [3]: Lets Get This Right
              By The IIRG

  We'd like to take this time to thank all the systems that have responded
 to our call for Distribution Sites. But heres a few tips We'd like to pass
 on.

 1. When responding in E-mail, Leave us the Name and more importantly, the
    PHONE NUMBER of your BBS.

 2. Of the systems that did leave us there Correct Info, over 40% were down
    or disconnected when we tried to call. Its taken us several weeks to get
    to everyone, but PLEASE!! DO NOT apply if you run an elevator bbs.
    You know, Up and Down!!!

 3. To all of those who tried to contact us and didn't leave the correct
    info, Please respond again.



                    //////    //////     ///////     ////////
                     //        //       //    //    //
                    //        //       ///////     //   ////
                   //        //       //    //    //     //
                ////// *  //////  *  //     // * /////////

                            ATTENTION ALL SYSOPS
                            --------------------

      The International Information Retrieval Guild is looking to expand
     its distribution network in 1993. We would prefer BBS's that mainly
     cater to the Hack/Phreak/Anarchy Underground.
      Two Forms of distribution are currently available to those sysops
     who choose to participate and meet certain criteria.

                       1. Phantasy Magazine Distribution
                       2. Complete IIRG File Distribution

      1. Phantasy Distribution

         Phantasy is the IIRG's Online Newsletter/Magazine for the
         H/P/A community. Phantasy Distribution for your bbs means
         that all new Issues of Phantasy will be uploaded by a courier
         to your BBS within 12-24 Hours of its release date.
         Your only responsibility is to provide a File area.

       2. IIRG File Distribution

          The IIRG Archives contain a vast wealth of information
         gathered over the years from the underground. IIRG file
         distribution will provide you with a courier and file list.
          Your responsibility will be to edit the file list to your
         tastes or Needs and provide it to your courier.
          Over a short period of time the courier will provide the
         files you've selected.


           As always this is a free service from the IIRG at no
          cost to you, the sysop.

           LIMITATIONS: The IIRG has no overseas couriers at this
           time, Overseas Sysops will be provided with a No Ratio,
           No Limit Account at an IIRG Distro Site and will be
           responsible for there own distribution until a
           courier can be provided.


          The IIRG May be Contacted Through Mercenary at:

                           mercenar@works.UUCP

          or by Snail Mail at:


                            Mercenary/IIRG
                            862 Farmington Ave.
                            Suite 306
                            Bristol,CT. 06010


                              -=THE IIRG=-

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [4]: FOR THE PEOPLE
              Supplied By: Bulletin Boards Across the Country
              Edited by: Mercenary
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

               FBI SHUTS BULLETIN BOARD - COPYRIGHT PROBE BEGUN
                              By Michael A. Hobbs
                       Cleveland Plain Dealer 2/17/93
                              (Boardman, OH)

 The FBI has shut down Rusty & Edie's Computer Bulletin Board here, one of
 the nation's largest, during an investigation of allegations that a
 Boardman, O., couple violated federal computer software copyright statutes.

 The national Software Publishers Association said yesterday that they were
 delighted with the FBI's Jan. 30 raid of the home of Russell and Edwina
 Hardenburgh of Fredericksburg Dr.

 Thomas F. Jones, Cleveland FBI special agent-in-charge, said in a statement
 yesterday that the Youngstown FBI secured a search warrant before raiding
 the Hardenburgh home.

 The search warrant alleges that the couple illegally distributed copyrighted
 computer software programs to their bulletin board subscribers without
 permission of copyright owners.

 In the raid, the FBI seized computers, computer disks, telecommunications
 equipment, and financial and subscriber business records.  The Hardenburghs
 have not been charged with a crime, Jones said, but the investigation is
 continuing.

 If charged and convicted of federal copyright violations, the Hardenburghs
 could each be sentenced to five years in jail and a maximum $250,000 fine.
 The couple could not be reached yesterday.

 Their home phone is answered by a tape-recorded message that says: "Hi, you
 have reached Rusty and Edie's...We are down now.  For that we are truly
 sorry.  We will be back on line sometime between Feb. 24 and March 1."

 Since 1987, the Hardenburghs operated Rusty & Edie's Computer Bulletin
 Board service from their home.  Federal officals said tha bulletin board
 was the largest in Ohio and one of the nation's largest.

 Rusty & Edie's had more than 14,000 subscribers in the United States,
 Canada and Europe, each paying an $89 annual membership fee. It provided
 more than 100,000 popular software business and entertainment files to its
 subscribers.

 The bulletin board had 124 computer phone lines and logged more than 3.4
 million calls, with more than 4,000 new calls a day.  Youngstown FBI agent
 Mike Waldner said a decision would be made later on whether to investigate
 Rusty & Edie's subscribers for alleged copyright violations.

 A computer bulletin board allows personal computer users to access a host
 computer by a modem-equipped telephone to exchange information, messages,
 files and computer software programs.

 Officials of the Software Publishers Association in Washington, D.C., said
 they alerted the FBI about Rusty & Edie's after they got complaints from
 members that their software was illegally distributed by the Hardenburghs.

 "We applaud the FBI's action." said Ilene Rosenthal, SPA general counsel.
 "This shows that the FBI recognizes...the seriousness of software
 piracy...and the harm that theft of intellectual property causes to one of
 the U.S.'s most vibrant industries."

 Software piracy cost the software industry $1.2 billion in 1991.  Ken
 Wasch, SPA's executive director, said, "Many people may not realize that
 software pirates cause prices to be higher...to make up for publisher
 losses."

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                  RUSTY & EDIE'S BBS SEIZED BY THE FBI

Rusty & Edie's BBS touted the fact that they had only two rules: 1. Have fun
and 2. No More Rules. It would appear they are going to soon add a third rule
to their operation - No Commercial Software.

After several years operating as the biggest open secret in BBSland, the 124
line BBS operated from the home of Russell And Edwina Hardenburgh in Boardman
Ohio was raided by the FBI. On Saturday afternoon, January 30, FBI agents
presented Rusty with a search warrant. Approximately 130 personal computers,
modems, LAN cabling, software packages, and subscriber records were seized as
evidence and hauled away - essentially terminating all operations.

Claiming some 14,000 subscribers to a system sporting a registration fee of
some $89 per year and 124 access telephone lines, Rusty & Edie's was one of
the nation's largest bulletin board systems. They claimed some 3.4 million
calls since going online and were receiving some 4000 calls daily when the
system went offline. The system featured over a 100,000 shareware files on 19
Gigabytes of file storage. They were charged with distributing copyrighted
commercial software on their BBS. And while the Software Publishers
Association (SPA) was quick to step forward and take credit for the FBI
action, it was actually quite late on the scene with this one. And therein
lies a tale.

Five years ago, Bob Fairburn had a heart attack. A restaurant manager in
Kansas with a wife and children, Fairburn could not obtain life insurance and
was assured by doctors that he had a life expectancy of five years or less.
He pondered for months on how he could somehow assure his family an income
after his death. And he decided that there were two things a man could do in
America to generate ongoing income - write a book or invent something.

So he set out to write the Great American Novel. After months of effort, he
read through his manuscript and decided even he wouldn't buy it. So he cast
about for something he could invent. But again, he found he just didn't have
the inspiration to be an Edison. His son had a small personal computer and
was already writing games in BASIC. Fairburn took a look at it and decided
this was something he could do.

He bought every book he could find on computer programming, and he signed up
on Bob Mahoney's Shorewood Wisconsin EXEC-PC BBS. He downloaded hundreds of
files from the BBS containing code fragments, examples, programming
tutorials, and anything he could find on programming. Starting in BASIC, he
eventually moved on to PASCAL. And he came up with an idea for a program. He
called it HOME DESIGNER and it was basically a simple CAD package to design
home floor plans, place and arrange furniture, and try out various designs
for your home or office.

Fairburn decided shareware wasn't the way to go to generate cash. So he
solicited software distributors for months. Eventually, a company in Florida
called Expert Software picked up the title and launched Expert Home Design -
at the staggering price of $14.95 retail.

According to Fairburn, he only gets fifty cents for each copy sold, but the
program caught on and he reached the point that he was making a living. He
bought a farm outside of Leavenworth Kansas and to get needed physical
exercise, began clearing it and converting it into a wildlife park. He hired
an assistant, and continued software development.

About a year ago, he dialed his old haunt at Bob Mahoney's EXEC-PC BBS, and
there was his commercial software program listed in the download directory
with BBS callers downloading it madly. Stunned, he called Bob Mahoney voice
and asked him about. Mahoney immediately apologized and removed the file from
the directory. In examining the file, they found a small file in it
advertising that it came from Rusty & Edie's BBS. Mahoney explained that
sometimes callers are confused by the difference between shareware software
and commercial software and in an effort to contribute something, they upload
commercial software to bulletin boards sometimes without realizing the
impact. "Most BBS operators will remove it immediately if you call their
attention to it," Mahoney assured him.

So Fairburn dialed Rusty & Edie's BBS and did indeed find his program
available for download there as well. He selected the editor and began
drafting a message to the sysop explaining the situation and asking that the
file be removed. According to Fairburn, while he was typing the message,
Rusty broke into real-time chat and rather rudely told him that he wasn't
responsible for every file that anybody uploaded to the BBS, that they
received megabytes of file uploads each day, and that he would remove the
file whenever he felt like it and got around to it.

Despite the harsh tone, Fairburn accepted this explanation. But when he
called a week later, the file was still there.

"Understand," explains Fairburn, "I'm not Bill Gates. I only get fifty cents
per copy sold, and my family depends on this for a living. This guy was
running a giant bulletin board and taking in lots of subscriptions, and
basically he was stealing my software. I just got mad about it."

Fairburn called the FBI office in Kansas City and complained. They were quite
nice but not very helpful during the call. But about a month later, Fairburn
answered a knock on the door to find an FBI agent on the front porch - there
to investigate his problem. Fairburn took the agent into the den and logged
onto Rusty & Edie's BBS. They logged the session to disk and he showed him
not only his own program in the directory, but copies of Borland's Software,
Novell's LAN software, a number of Microsoft programs, Quicken, and according
to Fairburn, "virtually every commercial game program made."

Fairburn was discouraged to learn that the agent knew nothing about
computers. But he gave him a disk with the logged session on it, some files
they actually downloaded, and a copy of PKZIP so he could extract the files.
He patiently explained what PKZIP did, and why it needed to be done. The
agent thanked him and left - telling him they would turn it over to their
Cleveland office.

Last October, nearly six months after the initial contact, the FBI contacted
Fairburn to ask if he would be willing to fly to Ohio at their expense to
testify against the Hardenburgh's in the event they decided to prosecute the
case. Fairburn agreed as long as they would cover his travel expenses.

He had also notified the publishing company that distributed his software.
And apparently they did contact the SPA. The FBI had apparently contacted
several of the other software vendors whose programs were found in the log
files, and they had in turn contacted the SPA - ergo the SPA involvement.

On January 30th, the FBI served a search warrant on Rusty & Edie's BBS, and
essentially trucked it away - an estimated $200,000 worth of computing
equipment.

The bust has evoked mixed reactions online. While the eternally concerned on
the Internet were outraged by the Constitutional implications, competing BBS
operators were not quite so adamant. According to Kevin Behrens of Aquila
BBS, a 32-line PCBoard system in Chicago, "Rusty Edie's was the worst-kept
secret in the industry. I don't know if it's a shame or about time."

Bob Mahoney of EXEC-PC was a bit more direct. "In some ways, this is a
competitive situation and every honest sysop is at a disadvantage. Imagine
operating a car wash with a competing car wash across the street. The
difference is that they give away a $20 gold piece with each car wash, but
you aren't allowed to because it is against the law."

Mahoney went on to note, "There's also something a bit annoying about
computer people (BBS operators) ripping off other computer people (software
authors). It's a bit like cannibalism within the family. I have a problem
with that."

Hardenburgh refused to comment on the situation noting the usual advice of
his lawyer not to discuss the case. "I will say I never thought something
like this could happen in America and I'm shocked and very disappointed."
Hardenburgh vowed to have the system back up on new equipment by March 1 at
the (216)726-1247 number, and expressed his hope that "his caller base would
back him on this one."

"When this is all over, I want to come out to that ONE BBSCON in Colorado and
tell you all an earful. You're not going to believe what can happen to a
BBS," vowed Hardenburgh.

The situation may be further complicated by a recent change to the copyright
law, ostensibly driven by the SPA. On October 28, 1992, the 102nd Congress
passed Senate Bill 893 - which became Public Law 102-561 revising Title 18 of
the United States Code. Under Section 2319(b) of title 18, the criminal
penalties for copyright infringement were dramatically changed. Previously,
anyone making 1000 copies or more of a copyrighted work were eligible for the
maximum penalty. Under the revision, that is reduced to anyone making 10 or
more copies with a retail value exceeding a total of $2500 or more within a
180-day period. If found guilty, they may be subject to sentences of up to
five years and fines of up to $250,000.

As of this writing, Hardenburgh has not been charged with any crime. Thomas
F. Jones, Cleveland special agent-in-charge noted in a statement that the
Youngstown FBI did serve a search warrant on Hardenburgh's home January 30th.
The warrant alleges the couple illegally distributed copyrighted computer
software programs to bulletin board subscribers without permission of
copyright owners. There was apparently no implication of pornography.

And Fairburn? Well, he's exceeded his five year projected life span and seems
to be doing reasonably will from a cardiac perspective. He did drop a piece
of a tree on his arm with a loader in January and has a bit of a problem with
his arm. But his Expert Home Designer was extremely well reviewed in the
After Hours column of PC Magazine's August '92 issue, and while at $14.95
it's not one of the big dollar generating software packages, numerically it
is the 17th fastest selling software package in America. It's discounted to
as little as $7.95 in grocery stores and apparently the country wants to
rearrange their furniture on screen. The program is available from Expert
Software, PO Box 143376, Coral Gables, FL 33134; (800)759-2562 voice;
(305)443-3255 fax. Bob Fairburn can be reached at 1004 2nd Ave., Leavenworth
KS, 66048; (913)651-3715 voice.

Other BBS operators are concerned by the implications of the raids.
Typically, any BBS is subject to receiving uploads of commercial software
from callers. And while most do a very good job of screening out the obvious
Microsoft Word or Lotus 123 program, there are tens of thousands of
commercial programs like EXPERT HOME DESIGNER that aren't immediately obvious
in an environment that also includes over 100,000 shareware titles that are
perfectly acceptable to carry online.

Most attempts by conscientious  system operators to automate the task of
separating commercial software from shareware software have had very limited
success. Typically, search software examines uploaded .ZIP files to detect
content files with a certain 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) signature.
But these signatures have not proven to be reliable or unique. Andy Keeves of
Executive Network BBS in Mount Vernon, New York, has devised what may be the
beginnings of a solution. A database has been compiled using the FWKCS
"Content Signature" system made available by Dr. F.W. Kantor of New York with
the cooperation of several software manufacturers. Kantor's system uses a 64
bit signature based on both a CRC of the file and the file length. This is
proving significantly more reliable.

The Executive Network supplies a diskette with instructions to any software
manufacturer on request in order to help them identify critical components of
their work. When the manufacturer submits the generated "signatures" to the
Executive Network, they are incorporated into a database. A software program
automatically deletes any uploads containing one of the registered
signatures. Software manufacturers can request the identification software by
contacting Mr. Black at Executive Network voice (914)667-2150 or by modem at
(914)667-4567. There is no charge for either the diskette or the service. BBS
operators will be able to download the database for their own use at no
charge.  According to Keeves, the database already contains several thousand
signatures.

Executive Network is one of the largest bulletin boards in the country with
over 12 GB of files online, international e-mail, and vendor support areas.
The Executive Network Information System, 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, NY
10550; (914)667-2150 voice; (914)667-4567 BBS; (914)667-4817.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           FBI UNDECIDED WHETHER TO INVESTIGATE USERS OF CLOSED BBS
                        Online Today Feb 17, 1993

  The FBI says it hasn't decided whether to investigate subscribers to the
 massive Boardman, Ohio, computer bulletin board system called
 "Rusty & Edie's," which was shut down recently for alleged copyright
 violations.

  As reported earlier this month, federal agents, working with the Software
 Publishers Association, seized computers, hard disk drives and
 telecommunications equipment, as well as financial and subscriber records
 in the raid.

  In a statement released late yesterday, FBI officials said the search warrant
 used in the Jan. 30 raid at the home of Russell and Edwinia Hardenburgh
 alleges the couple illegally distributed copyrighted software without
 permission.

  United Press International quotes federal authorities as saying the BBS had
 124 phone lines and logged more than 3.4 million calls since 1987, with more
 than 4,000 new calls daily. The system, one of the largest in the nation, had
 more than 14,000 subscribers in the United States, Europe and Canada.

  UPI says the Hardenburghs, if charged and convicted, could each be sentenced
 to five years in prison and fined $250,000.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           ACLU CHALLENGES FBI'S CLOSING 'RUSTY & EDIE'S' BBS IN OHIO
                           Online Today Feb. 20, 1993

  A challenge to the constitutionality of an FBI raid that shut down "Rusty &
 Edie's" bulletin board service in Boardman, Ohio, last month has been issued
 by the American Civil Liberties Union.

  ACLU Ohio legal director Kevin O'Neill told United Press International that,
 while the FBI's copyright infringement allegations might have merit, such
 allegations are normally resolved in civil suits, not criminal cases.

  O'Neill said Rusty & Edie's 14,000 subscribers are more subscribers than many
 small- circulation newspapers enjoy and "shutting down a computer bulletin
 board is analogous to shutting down a newspaper printing press. Our conception
 of constitutionally protected public forums must be broadened to include new
 communication networks like computer bulletin boards."

  As reported earlier (GO OLT-480), the FBI released a statement this week
 saying it hasn't decided whether to investigate subscribers to the massive
 BBS, which was raided Jan. 30 and shut down for alleged software copyright
 violations.

  Federal agents, working with the Software Publishers Association, entered the
 home of Russell and Edwinia Hardenburgh with a search warrant and seized
 computers, hard disk drives and telecommunications equipment, as well as
 financial and subscriber records. The BBS had 124 phone lines and logged more
 than 3.4 million calls since 1987, with more than 4,000 new calls daily.
 No charges have been filed against the Hardenburghs.

  Meanwhile, Mark Kindt, a Cleveland businessman who was Cleveland regional
 director for the Federal Trade Commission from 1988 to 1992, told UPI he
 likened the FBI raid to "hunting gnats with an elephant gun."

  Said Kindt, "I'm surprised this investigation led to seizing the equipment of
 one of America's largest computer bulletin boards. Computer bulletin boards
 are electronic town halls. Even if (Rusty & Edie's) pirated the moon,
 the government should have proceeded in a more careful, deliberative manner."

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       RUSTY AND EDIE's RETURNS

              Please note our new telephone numbers:

                        Russ Hardenburgh
                    1480 Fredricksburg Drive
                      Youngstown, OH 44512

                     Our Phone Numbers are:

                    Voice:     216 726-4217
                    Fax:       216 726-3595 FAX not open yet (soon)
                    2400 baud: 216 726-2620
                    HST:       216 726-1804 Not for Dual Standards HSTs ONLY!
                    V32        216 726-2620 Dual Standards use this line only!!
                    Compucoms  216 726-3584
                    Hayes
                    V-series   216 726-3619


02/26/93   We're back, we have done our very best to put back as much of the
           system as we possibly could, we feel we have done pretty well
           keeping about the last year of files.  We hope you all like it.
           Please report any problems you have with the system, we need to work
           out the bugs.

           What can you do to help?

  1.  Please upload new files, we need your uploads so that we can
      continue to be the very best place to get new files.

  2.  We have done our very best to make sure their are no commercial
      files on line, if you should find one or suspect one please
      leave us a message or call us voice, our new number is 216 726-
      4217, so that we can remove it.

  3.  Download a file called R&E-IS.BAC and upload it to every BBS you
      can, also post it in every message base you can so our callers
      will know we are back on line and need their help.

  4.  Send money!!

      New callers please join our system, you will find us a good
      reliable source of enjoyment.  Read bulletin #1

      Old callers, please renew now, even if you are not due yet, we
      need your help now.

   Buy the modems and other hardware we sell, we sell the best and
   we need the money at this time to rebuild the system.

   In addition we are asking that all of you that can and want to
   help us in our hour of need send donations to help us rebuild
   this system.  Our address is printed in bulletin #5 or simply
   use script #1 and when it asks how much be sure and indicate
   this is an extra donation, Edie and I will always remember your
   kindness.

   You all know us and know we will do the very best we possibly can to
   make Rusty n Edie's a fun place to visit, we remain "The Friendliest
   BBS in the World."

                                      .......Rusty n Edie too!!

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [5]: The Rumor Mill (Unconfirmed Rumors From the Underground)
              Edited By: Mercenary and Anubis

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE FOLLOWING HAS APPEARED ON SEVERAL WELL KNOWN HACK/PHREAK BBS's

Be on the Look out for: Mutant-X!

He is a narc working for the Columbus Police Department.  He busted
a guy by the handle of Scotty by acting like his friend and then
reporting back to the police.

If he is on your bbs, please be careful, he is not trustworthy.
His real name is Ed and he lives in Grove City, OH, but works for the
Columbus police.

He is busting people for the System 75 PBX hacking.

His previous handle is Iceman.

This is all the info we have available.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 The Following text file was well circulated, but poorly researched.
 We consider it an excellent Prank, especially considering the inferior
 quality of the new version of PKZIP 204C,E,G (How many more Phil??)


 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1993 5:00PM CST
 ==========================================================================

 PKware Inc., citing overwhelming advertising, administrative and
 development expenses with the recent problem-plagued release of their
 new PKZIP product, filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy today in the Milwaukie
 County District Court.

 "PKWARE will continue to operate normally, and will provide, as always,
 the high-quality data compression products and services which have made
 us the leader in the data compression market," Mark Gresbach,
 press-relations manager of PKWARE, said.

 In business since 1987, PKWARE Inc. produces high-performance data
 compression software, which makes computer program and data files smaller,
 for faster transmission over telephone lines or to take up less disk space.
 Fortune 500 companies such as Borland Inc., of Scotts Valley, CA and
 government agencies such as the US Air Force are major customers of PKWARE.

 Any questions or concerns may be directed to PKWARE at any of the
 following telephone numbers:

 Phone (414) 354-8699
 FAX   (414) 354-8599
 BBS   (414) 356-8670.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 A recent "press release" indicated that PKWARE, producers of PKZIP and
 other popular software has filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11.

THE PRESS RELEASE IS A HOAX! PKWARE's Mike Stanton indicated that the
PKWARE is in sound financial shape and that there is no basis
whatsoever to the release. "It's probably somebody's idea of an early
April Fool's joke," said Stanton.
The release contained a number of factual errors that prompted us call
PKWARE, and they confirmed what we suspected.  CuD 5.18 will have
further details on, but the potential damages of the fraudulent
release require that we stop the rumor before it spreads.

               SO: THE "PRESS RELEASE" IS A HOAX.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [6]: PHANTASY TIDBITS: News and Views of Interest

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            RAID COLLECTS 15 TONS OF COUNTERFEIT MICROSOFT SOFTWARE
                              (Feb 20 1993)

  Fifteen tons of allegedly counterfeit Microsoft software and manuals, valued
 at up to $1 million, were seized by police in a raid on a San Francisco Bay
 Area warehouse.
  Arrested and charged with possession, distribution and sale of counterfeit
 merchandise was Jacob Tran, owner of J.T. Litho company of Concord, Calif. The
 Reuter News Service quoted Concord police spokesman Joe Kreins as alleging the
 company used sophisticated graphics equipment to mimic Microsoft packaging for
 Windows 3.0 and 3.1 and MS-DOS 5.0.
  "Police working with Microsoft had the warehouse under surveillance since
 Feb. 12," Reuters says, "after Microsoft received an anonymous tip. Microsoft
 officials estimated the value of the fake goods ... at between $750,000 and $1
 million."
  The wire service says the authorities are looking for the supplier of the
 material and still are trying to recover the counterfeit goods already sold.
  Reports from Reuters are a regular feature of CompuServe's Executive News
 Service (GO ENS).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Newsdate: 3/10/93

               DIGITAL'S EASTERN RESTART CENTER KEEPS
              CUSTOMERS IN BUSINESS AFTER WTC EXPLOSION

  MAYNARD, Mass. -- March 10, 1993 -- More than a week after the
  explosion at New York City's World Trade Center, Digital Equipment
  Corporation continues to help keep several customers operating
  through its Eastern RESTART Center, located in Parsippany, N.J.

  At 12:45 p.m., on Friday, February 26 -- shortly after the
  explosion -- Digital's Eastern RESTART Center Manager in Parsippany,
  New Jersey, received a call from a Business Protection Services
  (BPS) customer located in Waltham, Massachusetts.  The customer's
  company was headquartered on the 18th floor at Two World Trade
  Center.

  Edward F. Behn, Vice President, Systems and Software, at IDD

  Information Services, Inc., immediately called his colleagues at the
  World Trade Center from his Waltham office.  "For a short while, we
  were able to maintain telephone contact with the World Trade
  Center," says Behn.  "Once we learned this was far more dramatic
  than a power loss, we contacted Digital immediately and put them on
  disaster alert."

  IDD is an information services company, providing trading
  information, historical stock prices and real-time database access
  services to a variety of news services and investment banks,
  including a number of VAX installation sites.

  By Saturday morning, Behn had learned the full extent of the
  damage to the World Trade Center, and formally declared a disaster.
  He quickly assembled a core team of four employees.  After
  retrieving back-up tapes from an off-site storage vault in New York,
  the team headed to Digital's Eastern RESTART Center in Parsippany.


  "At 8:00 that evening, we met at the Eastern RESTART Center,"
  says Behn.  "Through the night, we worked with Digital's recovery
  specialists and consultants to begin the process of reconfiguring
  systems, loading files and setting up communications capabilities.
  By Sunday afternoon, our systems were fully operational."

  By Monday, March 1, IDD was back to a 24-hour-a-day,
  seven-days-a-week business operation.  According to Behn, IDD was
  fully on-line, providing information and network and data base
  access to hundreds of its worldwide bank of customers.

  Minimal Down-Time

  "Within the first 24 hours of operations at the site, we
  serviced more than 1,000 sessions over our network -- which is
  actually a little higher than our normal load," says Behn.  "Our
  customers have been able to log on to our systems and obtain the
  information or stock prices they need.  In fact, the Monday

  (March 1) edition of the WALL STREET JOURNAL ran a pricing chart
  based on information we provided.  We suffered little down-time,
  with minimal overall impact to our customers."

  "Digital has done a wonderful job in helping to restore our
  operations," says Behn.  "The Eastern RESTART facility has
  accommodated our every need, and we couldn't be more pleased.
  Our customers are even surprised that we're fully operational."

  Currently, four IDD employees remain at the Eastern RESTART
  Center, and may be operating out of the facility for as long as a
  month, since World Trade Center occupants are expected to be denied
  occupancy in the building for that length of time.

  In addition to RESTART support, Digital has provided a number
  of customers with extra hardware and systems to help ensure
  continued business operation of their applications.


  RESTART Center Designed for Disaster

  Located just outside of New York City in Parsippany, New
  Jersey, the Eastern RESTART Center, or "Hot Site," allows customers
  to run their critical applications on Digital equipment to ensure
  that their business requirements continue without interruption in
  the event of a disaster.  The facility occupies 20,000 sq. ft. of
  floor space in a modern office park close to all the major highways
  for easy access to New York City and Newark Airport.

  Through its RESTART Centers, Digital also provides joint
  coverage for mixed IBM/Digital environments.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Newsdate: 2/11/93



        U.S. AIR FORCE TO INSTALL 350 ALPHA AXP WORKSTATIONS
        BY APRIL, 1993; UP TO 2,500 ADDITIONAL WORKSTATIONS,
                    SERVERS OVER NEXT FOUR YEARS


             Contract Valued at $4.2 Million Initially,
                $30-Million Potential over Four Years


   MAYNARD, Mass. -- February 11, 1993 -- Digital Equipment Corporation
   and prime contractor Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) will supply
   350 of Digital's new DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP workstations to the U.S.
   Air Force, with installation of the $4.2-million Alpha AXP order to
   take place in March and April, 1993.
     Within four years, sales could reach $30 million as the Air
   Force installs multiple DEC 3000 Model 400S AXP servers and up to
   2,500 future AXP workstation models in each of approximately 170 Air
   Force bases and deployable sites worldwide.
     CSC is utilizing the new AXP workstations with its software for
   an application known as AMC C2 IPS -- Air Mobility Command-Command
   and Control Information Processing System -- for mission monitoring
   and scheduling in real-time.  Initially, applications will run under
   the OpenVMS AXP operating system, with a potential move to the DEC
   OSF/1 for AXP UNIX operating environment in 1994.
     The application, currently running in the OpenVMS VAX
   environment, was used by the Air Force during Operation Desert Storm
   in 1991, and currently is being used at en-route locations to
   support the United Nations' relief efforts in Somalia.
     "We are moving from the VAX to the Alpha AXP platform as part
   of a transition to open systems standards compliance," said Ron
   Randel, IPS program manager for CSC.  "The Alpha AXP platform,
   running the POSIX-compliant DEC OSF/1 operating system, will provide
   the basis for this transition.  It also provides an enhanced
   price/performance advantage," he said.  In addition to POSIX, CSC is
   also planning to implement IPS with open standards including X.400,
   FIPS 127-1 (SQL), and GOSIP.
     "Our equipment positions Digital and its Alpha AXP architecture
   as a key component of Air Force command and control, said Jack
   MacKeen, vice president, Digital's Aerospace, Defense Electronics
   and Government group. "Our universal Alpha AXP platform provides not
   only the needed performance today, but also the flexibility needed
   to move the application to another operating system in the near
   future," MacKeen said.
     CSC's Integrated Systems Division, headquartered in Moorestown,
   New Jersey, performs a wide range of software development and
   systems integration programs for diverse government, Department of
   Defense, and commercial applications.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     OFFWORLD BBS SEIZED IN ST.LOUIS

 Joey Jay operated one of the more popular bulletin board systems in the St.
 Louis area. Offworld BBS operated on 32 telephone lines at (314)579-0700
 using the DLX software popular among real-time chat systems. It gained quite
 a following as a local chat system. Jay, 28 years old, operated the system
 from the basement of his fathers home in Chesterfield Missouri. Some 4300
 local callers frequented the system.

 On Friday evening, January 15th, at about 8:52 PM CST, the FBI served a
 search warrant and seized six computer systems, modems, all tape backups, -
 some $40,000 worth of computer hardware and software in all - on suspicion of
 interstate distribution of child pornography and images containing
 bestiality.

 According to Jay, there were images occasionally uploaded to the board as
 file attachments on private e-mail between callers. When he would detect
 them, he did delete them as a matter of practice and kick the caller off the
 system. He routinely tossed them into a SHREDME directory for later deletion
 with Norton's WIPE utility. He acknowledges that there were some questionable
 images in the SHREDME directory when the computer equipment was seized and
 notes he's not certain what was on the BBS as he had just returned from a
 week of snowboarding in Colorado when the raid occurred. He did maintain a
 regular file directory containing images of bestiality and was unaware it was
 against the law to do so.

 In addition to the equipment seizure, the FBI alluded to the fact that if the
 system came back up, they could, under law, seize Jay's father's house. His
 father asked Jay to move out of the premises.

 About 100 angry Offworld users gathered the following Monday at a support
 rally. Jay is receiving contributions of equipment and money to get the
 system back online and plans to do so soon. He has a one line message system
 up at the old number now. Jay originally started Offworld in Los Angeles
 where it operated from February of 1984 until June of 1992, when he moved it
 to the St. Louis area. He has retained Arthur Margulas, an ex-FBI agent and
 federal crime attorney practicing in St. Louis to represent him, and has been
 in close contact with Mike Godwin of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           STEVE JACKSON GAMES vs. U.S. SECRET SERVICE - TRIAL

On March 1, 1990, the United States Secret Service, participating in a
nationwide sweep code named Operation SunDevil, launched an early morning
raid on Steve Jackson Games, an Austin Texas publisher of role-playing games
and books. They broke locks on doors, seized and carted away all personal
computer equipment, business records, manuscripts of books being prepared for
publication, and all hardware and software of the Illuminati bulletin board
system run by SJG at (512)447-4449 to communicate with writers, customers,
and fans of the game series published by Jackson. Steve Jackson arrived at
work to find his business already loaded and ready to roll. Agents on the
scene refused to answer any questions, and they presented a search warrant
with essentially no information on it.

With his business records, computers, and manuscripts gone, Jackson laid off
workers in an effort to stave off bankruptcy. No charges were filed against
Jackson, and months of appeals to have the equipment and records returned met
with very limited success. In May, 1991, with the assistance of the
Electronic Frontier Foundation, Steve Jackson and the EFF filed a civil suit
against the United States Secret Service, Secret Service Agents Timothy Foley
and Barbara Golden, Assistant United States Attorney William Cook, and Henry
Kluepfel.

The case finally came to trial on Tuesday, January 26, 1993 at about 1:00 PM
in the U.S. District Court with Judge Sam Sparks presiding. Attorneys Jim
George and Pete Kennedy represented the plaintiffs. Their first witness was
agent Timothy Foley of the Secret Service. He acknowledged that he did know
that e-mail was on the BBS menu system, and explained that he refused to give
Jackson copies of anything that was on the BBS because he feared it might be
"booby-trapped." Although it was widely reported that he had told Steve
Jackson at the time that GURPS Cyberpunk, a fictional game published by SJG,
was a "handbook for computer crime." When questioned under oath, he denied
ever making such a statement. He also denied any knowledge that Congress had
granted special protections to publishers during searches under the Privacy
Protection Act.

Larry Couterie, a University of Texas police officer was called to the stand
next. An affidavit filed by Foley to support the search warrant application
indicated that Coutorie had provided the Secret Service with the business
address of one of Jackson's employees. Under questioning, Couterie denied
knowing anything about the employee, or providing any such information to
Foley.

Steve Jackson demonstrated for the court the operation of a BBS,
demonstrating a message conference with an old west theme. By all accounts,
the demonstration was quite entertaining and the judge seemed to enjoy it.

The next day, the plaintiff's continued their case with testimony by writers
who submit manuscripts to SJG, and by e-mail users of the BBS. Apparently,
over 160 electronic mail messages were never delivered due to the government
seizure of the system, and of course much was made of the impact on the
individuals lives due to messages they thought they had sent, but had never
actually been received, etc.

Wayne Bell, author of the WWIV software used on the Illuminati system,
testified after examining the BBS. This testimony was used to show that
Secret Service had indeed read all the mail on the BBS system with numerous
files updated weeks after the raid.

Much of the original warrant was based on information from Henry Kluepfel,
Director of Network Security Technology at Belcore. His testimony at the
trial did more to explain what actually happened to lead to the raid.
Apparently, they suspected a BBS titled the Phoenix Project, operating in
Austin, of having a copy of an E911 document stolen from a computer in
Atlanta. Their information led them to believe the Phoenix Project was
operating from the home of Loyd Blankenship, an employee of Steve Jackson
Games. But after February 7, 1991, the Phoenix Project couldn't be located -
it's telephone number didn't answer. Since Loyd Blankenship worked at Steve
Jackson games, and since Steve Jackson Games ran a BBS titled Illuminati that
used the same WWIV software, they decided that the Phoenix Project was
actually hidden behind a "secret door" on the Illuminati BBS. A comparison of
the userlogs of the two bulletin boards indicated there was only a single
common user to both systems - Loyd Blankenship.

William Cook, retired U.S. Attorney testified at the trial and made a couple
of interesting comments. He indicated that no charges were ever filed against
Loyd Blankenship. A good bit of this testimony revolved around SJG role as a
publisher and the abrogation by the Secret Service of any observance of the
Privacy Protection Act procedures for serving search warrants on publishers.
One of the most interesting aspects of Cook's testimony involved the status
of electronic mail. He asserted that e-mail messages that had been sent, but
not received, were not in transit electronic mail but rather "stored"
electronic mail. The judge questioned him on this point and he acknowledged
he had based this interpretation on nothing beyond his own view of the
subject.

The government only made a half-hearted attempt at defending its position on
the raid. Most of their activity centered on damage control - seeking to
disqualify the $2 million in damages and $150,000 in lost royalties claimed
by the plaintiff. They contended that Steve Jackson games had actually been
in financial difficulties for several years before the raid and implied that
the publicity caused by the raid actually helped his business. By Thursday,
the judge had had enough. He interrupted testimony to deliver a 15-minute
tirade directed at Secret Service agent Timothy Foley consisting of a series
of "Didn't you know/Didn't you ask" questions that amounted to a public
scolding.

Shaken, the government rested their case without calling any of their
scheduled remaining defense witnesses.

While the trial was dramatically one sided on behalf of Steve Jackson Games
and the EFF, and decidedly embarrassing for the Secret Service and the U.S.
Attorney, the outcome is unsettled. The judge took the matter under
advisement and at this writing, has not issued a ruling in the case. The EFF,
with SJG, is seeking to establish several things. First, that the Electronic
Communications Privacy Act ensures the privacy of electronic mail from
government seizure without warrants served to each e-mail correspondent.
Secondly, SJG as a publisher is entitled to special protection under search
warrants under the Privacy Protection Act. And third, that SJG is deserving
of monetary damages from the business disruption caused by the search. All of
these are relatively dramatic goals that would alter how the government deals
with bulletin boards in the future. And despite the one-sided appearance of
the trial, Judge Sparks ultimate ruling could deal with any of these elements
as he sees fit.

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [7]: IIRG Distribution Sites
              (or Gateways to Oblivion)



                   //////    //////     ///////     ////////
                    //        //       //    //    //
                   //        //       ///////     //   ////
                  //        //       //    //    //     //
               ////// *  //////  *  //     // * /////////




    IIRG World HQ:           The Rune Stone BBS
                             14.4k HST
                             Phantasys Home Board
                             Complete IIRG Archives
                             Invitation Only
                             (203)-PRI-VATE


   IIRG Distribution Site 1: Wired World BBS
                             INC Europe
                             TPC Courier (WHQ)
                             THP
                             IIRG Distribution Site
                             Sysop: Digital Justice
                             +39-89-254138

   IIRG Distribution Site 2: Cyberdyne Network Germany
                             United Forces
                             Sysop: E605
                             +49-5341-59004
                             +49-5341-54052


   IIRG Distribution Site 3: The Sanitarium
                             Sysops: Morbid Angel [INC/ACID]
                                     Spectral Illusion [ACID/RAZOR]
                             IIRG Distribution Site
                             ACID Member Board
                             INC Courier Board
                             RAZOR 1911 Courier Board
                             VISA World Headquarters
                             (817)PRI-VATE

   IIRG Distribution Site 4: The WareHouse
                             (203)-231-8980
                             OVER A GIG ONLINE
                             Sysop: Ionizer

   IIRG Distribution Site 5: Hollow Tree Productions
                             Sysop: Phantasm
                             Syndicate
                             Extreme*Net
                             (313)-EXE-TREME

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

 Section [8]: Phantasy Distribution Sites

 Phantasy's Distribution Site's are continually growing,we apologize if you
 called a board and didn't find the Mag. Network Distribution Sites will
 have the Issues first, we suggest calling one of them if a problem does
 arise.


  1. Lightning Systems
     (414) 363-4282
     200 Million Bytes OnLine
     USRobotics Dual Standard HST/V.32bis
     2400 thru 14.4k v.32bis/HST

  2. The Works BBS
     (617-861-8976)
     Large Text Files BBS, 3500+ text files online.
     2400-300 Baud, 24 Hours a day

  3. Pipers Pit BBS
     19,200-9600 HST ONLY!!
     24 Hours a Day
     THG Distro Site 1300 Megs
     (203)PRI-VATE [2 Nodes]

  4. The Dickinson Nightlight
     (713)-337-1452
     Der WeltanSchauung Distro Site (World View Magazine)
     Phantasy Distro Site

  5. The Web
     (203)-869-0938
     CCI
     ACID
     Phantasy Distro

  6. Abiogenesis,
     300-14400bps, Practical Peripherals 14400FXSA
     24Hrs.
     Fidonet 1:280/310.
     Phone (816)734-4732


-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                   PHANTASY(C) IIRG 1991,1992,1993
                        May Odin Guide Your Way!
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

