-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             BT TYMNET RESTRUCTURES

       Washington, D.C., February 6, 1990 -- BT Tymnet, suppliers of the
international value-added network, TYMNET (r), announced today a company-wide
restructuring program at Communications Networks '90.  This progam is a direct
result of the integration of the British Telecom subsidiary, BT Dialcom,
Rockville, MD,  and the operating divisions acquired from McDonnell Douglas -
Network Systems Company, Network Application Systems, Applied Communication
Systems (ACS), and  Payment Systems Company.  The new entity, BT Tymnet Inc.,
will be closely focused on providing high-quality, high-value, business
solutions to the world-wide market for telecommunications applications systems,
products and services.

INTEGRATION OF SALES AND MARKETING
       All of the systems, products and services marketed under the various
companies will now be available from the new company, BT Tymnet Inc. This
includes the products and services associated with the TYMNET Network, as well
as the electronic messaging programs DIALCOM and OnTyme, the electronic data
interchange program, EDI*Net, and the point-of-sale services, Electronic Draft
Capture, and Credit Authorization.  Sales operations have also been aligned to
reflect the business solution focus of the new product portfolio.  BT Tymnet
Corporate Headquarters are located in San Jose, California, USA, with regional
offices located in the United States, Canada, Europe, and the Pacific Rim.


KEY ELEMENTS TO SUCCESS
       "Winners in the world-wide race to supply global networking solutions
will share one fundamental quality -  a committment to serving the business of

their customers.  Suppliers of high-quality, reliable, and timely solutions to
the business of daily communications, based on superior technology, will take
the lead. This restructuring represents our  continuing commitment to our
customers that THEIR business comes first," stated Art Parsons, Senior
Vice-President Sales and Marketing, BT Tymnet.

BT TYMNET INC.
       BT Tymnet Inc., an international value-added network supplier, is one of
the world's largest providers of shared, dedicated and hybrid network solutions.
The company owns and operates the TYMNET Network, which offers protocol
conversion, error-protection, enhanced security features, electronic data
interchange (EDI), card services and electronic messaging. The TYMNET Network
is accesssible from most countries throughout the world.

                      _________________________________



                      BT TYMNET TO PROVIDE ACCESS FOR DIGITAL'S
                              INDEPENDENT SOFTWARE VENDORS


         SAN JOSE, California, February 6, 1990 -- BT Tymnet Inc. and Digital
Equipment
Corporation announced today that the international value-added network TYMNET(r)
has been chosen as the access provider for the Digital Independent Software
Vendor (ISV) Program, ISVNet.  Digital, a long time customer of BT Tymnet,
established the ISVNet to identify and work with third-party software developers
-- worldwide -- interested in writing  applications for all of Digital's
strategic platforms.
          ISVNet is used to link Digital's ISVs and  CSOs  (Complimentary
Solutions Organizations) with Digital personnel, and is becoming a primary way
these third parties communicate with Digital.

BENEFITS OF THE ISV PROGRAM
          By utilizing the TYMNET Network, ISVs  and CSOs gain easy, low-cost
access and dependability via a local call in over 850 cities nationwide, as well
as over 80 countries worldwide.  "We estimate the cost for an hour of connect
time will decrease to an average of $5 versus $30 an hour previous to this
agreement," said Mike Mancuso, group marketing manager for Digital's Corporate
Independent Software Vendors Group.  "Our experience with ISVs leads us to
believe that a cost-effective, secure data network is a more efficient means of
communicating with CSOs and ISVs than a traditional telephone support program,"
said Mancuso.
          The ISVNet is currently used by software developers as an
electronic-mail system to Digital engineers and for access to on-line Notes
Conferences, which focus on common development issues. Digital also uses the
ISVNet to announce training classes, which it provides free to its ISVs and
CSOs, and as an electronic bulletin board.
          Digital's CSO and ISV programs are  open to all companies, regardless
of size or number of employees.
          In a research report compiled by the AberdeenGroup, they concluded
that "Digital's ISV Program is far and away the most comprehensive hardware
manufacturer-sponsored technical-support program available for ISMs (Independent
Software Manufacturers) today." Aberdeen recommends that ISMs who want their
applications to run on larger-than-PC, state-of-the-industry systems join the
other ISMs who are already in Digitals's ISV Program.


BT TYMNET INC.
          BT Tymnet Inc., an international value-added network supplier, is one
of the world's largest providers of shared, dedicated, and hybrid network
solutions. The company owns and operates the TYMNET Network which offers
protocol conversion, error-protection, enhanced security features, eclectronic
data interchange (EDI), card services, and electronic messaging. The TYMNET
Network is accessible from most countires throughout the world.

DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION
          Digital Equipment Corporation, headquartered in Maynard,
Massachusetts, is a leading worldwide supplier of network computer systems and
services. Digital offers a full range of computing solutions and systems
integration for the entire enterprise --  from the desktop to the data center.

                      _________________________________



               MAJOR SAUDI CONTRACT WON BY BT TYMNET

SAN JOSE, California, February 12, 1990  -- BT Tymnet Inc., provider of the
international value-added network TYMNET(R), in conjunction with British Telecom
al-Saudia  Ltd.,  has won a major contract  to supply, install and maintain a
private packet-switched data network for the Saudi French Bank.
The US $2 million contract consists of equipment supplied by BT Tymnet, and will
be installed and maintained by British Telecom's newly formed joint venture
company in Saudi Arabia, British Telecom al-Saudi.

THE SAUDI FRENCH BANK
The Saudi French Bank's choice of network provider was based on the need to have
a backbone that can fully support their completely automated data service
objectives, both present and future.  The network will enhance communications
between the bank's 60-plus branches throughout the kingdom. "We look forward to
working with Al Bank Al Saudi Al Fransi (the Saudi French Bank) for what is
recognized to be one of the most integrated customer applications of X.25
throughout the Middle East", said Andrew Thomson, BT al-Saudia's General
Manager.

WORLDWIDE BUSINESS SOLUTIONS
"Our goal at BT Tymnet is to provide the highest possible level of support and
service to our customers - whether it's in dedicated, hybrid or shared network
applications. BT Tymnet's business solution, together with BT al-Saudia,
demonstrates our ongoing commitment to delivering the best in worldwide
networking services," said Mark Baker, Chief Executive Officer of BT Tymnet Inc.

BT TYMNET INC.
BT Tymnet Inc., an international value-added network supplier, is one of the
world's largest providers of shared, dedicated, and hybrid network solutions.
The company owns and operates the TYMNET(R) Network which offers protocol
conversion, error-protection, enhanced security features, electronic data
interchange (EDI), card services, and electronic messaging. The TYMNET Network
is accessible from most countries throughout the world.

BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC
British Telecommunications plc, a leading world player in telecommunications,
operates one of the largest communications networks in the world, has annual
revenues of almost $19 billion, employs about 247,000 staff and has over 100
offices in 30 countries. In North America, companies within the British Telecom
group employ over 3,500 personnel and provide international networks, PBX,
business systems, electronic mail, enhanced informatin services, integrated
trading systems, datacoms equipment, optoelectronics, voice messaging, radio
paging and mobile communications.


TYMNET is a registered trademark of BT Tymnet Inc.

                      __________________________________



BRITISH TELECOM ANNOUNCES "CONCERT (TM)" FOR OPEN NETWORK MANAGEMENT


BT Tymnet in Harmony with CONCERT


NEW YORK, New York, March 28, 1990 - British Telecom today unveiled its
strategic plans for helping the world's businesses solve one of their most
pressing problems: control and management of their communications networks.

Known as CONCERT (TM), British Telecom's open network management capability
will be built on internationally-agreed open standards, allowing it to
interface with systems from other suppliers.

It will allow customers end-to-end management capability of their public,
private, and hybrid networks, and will automate many routine tasks while
optimizing network performance.

David Dey, Managing Director of British Telecom's Communication Systems
Division, revealed the company's strategy for this new fast-emerging area of
communications which he said was "fundamental to achieving our goal of
becoming the world's most successful telecommunications company."

Mr. Dey continued: "Companies' networks have become the very lifeblood of
their businesses.  Investment in such networks runs into millions of dollars.  With
increasing deregulation, these networks are often patchworks of equipment
from many different suppliers."

"Integrated management and control is fast becoming the most important
communications activity in major customer networks around the globe.  We are
totally committed to providing advanced solutions for our customers as a major
part of our strategy to become the world's leading telecommunications network
supplier.  This strategy is based on close, cooperative alliances with other
suppliers, using open standards to achieve full end-to-end systems management."

Mr. Dey said that, "in consequence, British Telecom had established a Network
Management Liaison Group with many other suppliers.  This supplemented its
collaboration with other vendors through its membership in the OSI/Network
Management Forum."

He added: "CONCERT is designed to cross the boundaries of public, private and
hybrid networking in both voice and data.  Because networks are part of an
overall information system, close cooperation with computer system suppliers
is essential."

"In particular, British Telecom is working with IBM and other major computer
companies to look at ways of establishing direct interworking between our
respective network management systems, through open interfaces."

CONCERT significantly builds on British Telecom's global activities including
those of its new subsidiary BT Tymnet, the worldwide value-added data services
and private networking supplier based in California, and its relationship with
Northern Telecom for distributing the MERIDIAN range of PBXs.  Both BT Tymnet
and Northern Telecom's products are intended to interface to CONCERT.

Mark Baker, President of BT Tymnet, said: "BT Tymnet's own UNIX-based network
management capability will be upgraded to provide interfaces to the CONCERT
integration system.  It will be repositioned to form a strong component of
the CONCERT initiative."

British Telecom's ability to exploit CONCERT for its major customers has grown
out of its expertise in this area.  During the last few years, the company has
built up a team of systems architects, designers and software engineers - now
over 1,000 strong - to support development of its network management products
and services.  It is deploying the latest technology, including expert systems,
and has recently concluded one of the worldUs largest contracts in this area
with Telefonica of Spain.

As another indication of its commitment in this area, British Telecom was a key
founder of the OSI Network Management Forum.  Established in 1988, it now
comprises nearly 100 leading communications and computer companies from 13
countries.  The Forum is working rapidly to agree on specifications to make
multi-vendor network management a reality.  Keith Willetts, one of the British
Telecom executives responsible for the CONCERT program, is currently President
of the Forum.

Mr. Willetts said: "As President of the Forum and closely involved in British
Telecom's plans, I have been able to ensure that CONCERT is harmonized with
the Forum's activities."

CONCERT is being implemented in the key networking products and services which
make up British Telecom's Customer Managed Communications portfolio. It will be
focused initially on value-added data networking, both in the UK and worldwide.
Local area networks, data communications and packet-switching products are
included.

British Telecom is conducting internal trials to add management capabilities
to its private circuit services portfolio in the UK. CONCERT technology and
interfaces will be used to give major customers on-line access to British
Telecom's business Service Centers for service requests and service resolution.
It will also be applied to voice networking involving the company's
relationship with Northern Telecom.

Trials of products implementing CONCERT begin as early as fourth quarter 1990,
with customer availability in progressive releases during 1991.

###


CONCERT is a registered trademark of British Telecom.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BT TYMNET AWARDED MOTOROLA CONTRACT TO PROVIDE NETWORK FOR CoveragePLUS SYTEM

         Will Link Nationwide Vehicle Communication and Location System

SAN JOSE, California, May 9, 1990 -- BT Tymnet Inc., provider of the
international value-added network TYMNET(R), announced today that they have been
chosen by Motorola, Inc., Communications Sector to support the CoveragePLUS(TM)
system. The three year contract is worth over $15 million.

CoveragePLUS is the first long-haul vehicle communications system to feature
nationwide vehicle tracking with both a voice and data link. BT Tymnet will
support the nationwide data requirements.

CoveragePLUS SYSTEM
CoveragePLUS is designed for a broad base of users that need to communicate with
their vehicles on a regional or nationwide basis. Subscribers to the service may
include firms such as private trucking fleets, common carriers, construction
fleets, field service fleets, hazardous waste handlers and government agencies.
Due to Motorola's expansive nationwide coverage, combined with BT Tymnet's
leadership position in providing network access, CoveragePLUS subscribers can
access their drivers in locations across the United States.

Users equip their vehicles with a CoveragePLUS radio and data terminal. When
turned on, software in the mobile unit logs on to the nearest CoveragePLUS node
site which notifies the dispatcher of the vehicle's location. These node sites,
and subscriber company dispatch locations, have dedicated connections to the
TYMNET Network which links them to the Motorola hub. When a mobile unit moves
into a new coverage area, it automatically logs on to that system, and the
process repeats itself.

Providing nearly seamless coverage for communications, CoveragePLUS is the first
system to offer 'real-time' position information as well as an instant two-way
link. Tracking, load status, and estimated time of arrival of every vehicle are
also features of the system allowing users to better manage their fleet, improve
customer service, and increase driver efficiency.

BT TYMNET SELECTION
Motorola evaluated several networks through an extensive analysis. According to
Motorola, the CoveragePLUS contract was ultimately awarded to BT Tymnet because
of the ability to deliver a highly reliable and proven network solution at
competitive rates. BT Tymnet also has experience installing large networks and
could best meet Motorola's accelerated implementation plan. "BT Tymnet
understood our needs and provided the best network solution to satisfy them,"
said Dick Kampa, CoveragePLUS Business Manager. "They were extremely flexible in
addressing our unique requirements and played a major consulting role. The
TYMNET Network also has many physical points of presence to help meet our
budget."

ROLLOUT
The pilot program has been successful and the contract now calls for BT Tymnet
to begin a geographic rollout of supported node sites that will expand to
encompass the country. By late 1990, CoveragePLUS is scheduled to blanket all of
the major interstate highways in the U.S. and the full implementation of the
system will link hundreds of sites.

CoveragePLUS is currently being marketed in the trucking industry.

BT TYMNET INC.
BT Tymnet Inc., an international value-added network supplier, is one of the
world's largest providers of public, private, and hybrid network solutions. The
company owns and operates the TYMNET(R) Network which offers protocol
conversion, error-protection, enhanced security features, electronic data
interchange (EDI), card services, and electronic messaging. The TYMNET Network
is accessible from most countries throughout the world.

MOTOROLA, INC.
Motorola, Inc., Communications Sector is one of the world's leading
manufacturers of highly specialized two-way electronic communications systems,
products and components for distribution in worldwide markets. They include
mobile and portable two-way FM radio communications systems, radio paging
systems, mobile and portable data communications systems, signalling and remote
control systems, information display systems, automatic vehicle location,
electronic command and control systems, digital voice protection systems, HF
single-side band systems, components and test equipment.

Motorola was a winner of the first annual Malcolm Baldrige National Quality
Award, in recognition of its superior company-wide management of quality
processes.
                                    ###

TYMNET is a registered trademark of British Telecom plc.
Motorola and CoveragePLUS are trademarks of Motorola, Inc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BT TYMNET INCREASES X.25 OFFERINGS

Announces New Bundled X.25 Service -  "XLINK Express"

San Jose, California, July 9, 1990 - BT Tymnet Inc., provider of the
international value-added network TYMNET(R), announced today the availability
of XLINK Express (TM), a family of new, bundled, port-based, synchronous X.25
services (XLINKs) offering customers significantly lower cost X.25 host access
to the TYMNET network.

XLINKs
XLINKs are leased line private access port services for X.25 interfaces at
speeds up to 19.2 Kbps (bits per second) and supporting up to 64 virtual
circuits.  Currently available in over 175 U.S. cities, XLINK Express includes
port access, leased line, modems, software, and free data transmission on
traffic originating from the XLINK interface.  As a basic service, XLINK ports
utilize standard X..25 default parameters (i.e. a 128 packet size, packet
window equal to 2, LAPB, etc.).  BT Tymnet also offers other value-added X.25
services that operate non-default service settings for those users needing to
customize their communication lines.

"XLINK Express demonstrates BT Tymnet's receptiveness to the marketplace and
those customers who desire a bundled service," said Art Parsons, Senior Vice
President, Sales and Marketing for BT Tymnet.

"XLINKs are best configured in a host-to-host environment where users can take
advantage of the traffic insensitive pricing," states Joan Carmichael, X.25
services product manager for BT Tymnet.   "Customers are now able to choose
from a number of X.25 services ranging from full-featured X.25 host interfaces
to all-inclusive standard X.25 ports."

Prior to XLINK Express, customers requiring a 9.6 Kbps leased line for standard
X.25 host connectivity would typically pay an average monthly rate of $1500 for
their leased line, modems, and interface.  With XLINK, customers can now be
charged a flat monthly rate of $900 which includes all the elements they need
to successfully connect their X.25 host to the TYMNET network.  Depending on
communication requirements and the application needs, BT Tymnet customers can
save hundreds per month on each XLINK connection.

In addition to the new XLINK Express service, for dial-up X.25 users, BT Tymnet
has reduced and bundled service pricing on TymDial X.25 private access ports
(PAPs). The new pricing includes the X.32/X.25 port access, modem, and
kilocharacter transmission originating from the PAPs.

TYMDIAL(TM) X.25
TymDial X.25 is an error-free synchronous transmission protocol that provides
dial-up X.25 access via the CCITT X.32 and X.25 recommendations.  TymDial X.25
allows users to access X.25, asynchronous, QLLC, and DSP applications through
dial-up lines rather than more expensive leased lines.  TymDial is especially
suited for customers needing occasional data communications to remote U.S. and
foreign locations where dedicated leased line services become too
cost-prohibitive.

BT TYMNET INC.
BT Tymnet Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of British Telecom plc, is an
international value-added network supplier and one of the world's largest
providers of public, private and hybrid network solutions.  The company owns
and operates the TYMNET network, which offers protocol conversion,
error-protection, enhanced security features, electronic data interchange (EDI),
card services and electronic messaging.  The TYMNET network is accessible from
most countries throughout the world.

###

TYMNET is a registered trademark of British Telecom, plc.
TymDial is a trademark of British Telecom, plc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BT TYMNET OFFERS GATEWAY TO 850 DATABASES

     SAN JOSE, California, July 16, 1990 - BT Tymnet Inc., provider of the
international value-added network TYMNET(r), announced today the availability
of CGS  (Cyclopean Gateway Service(tm)), a new service which provides
menu-driven access to more than 850 databases available from 13 worldwide
information providers. CGS, a customized version of the EasyNet(r) Knowledge
Gateway(r) service operated by Telebase Systems Inc., in effect triples the
information sources accessible by BT Tymnet customers.
     BT Tymnet will provide the service via its Dialcom(r) service offering.

CGS
     Through CGS, information may be retrieved by accessing individual databases
within particular subject areas. CGS is menu-driven to simplify the search
process.The service assists the researcher in selecting the appropriate
databases to search, and translates the user's search terms into the proper
command language. This eliminates the need for the user to learn complicated
commands and protocols normally required by the individual database providers.
     The broad subject areas covered include business, science and technology,
medicine and allied health, law, patents and trademarks, social sciences and
education, arts, literature and religion, entertainment, and people. For news
articles, users can quickly and easily search for and retrieve information from
domestic and international magazines, newspapers, published papers, indexes,
scholarly journals, directories, and more.
     CGS also offers the capability to simultaneously search in a variety of
databases using its SmartScan feature. SmartScan groups databases together by
subject category, e.g. Advertising & Marketing, Management, and Government &
Defense. SmartScan is particularly useful for comprehensive background and
"needle in a haystack" searches.
     As part of CGS, BT Tymnet will also distribute a new investment tool
developed by Telebase Systems. Inc. and Telescan, Inc. The Investment ANALY$T
provides menu-driven access to vital stock market information like current and
historical quotes, stock charts, indicators, financials and news, and a stock
screening search service, without requiring the use of specialized software.
ANALY$T can be used to track portfolios, identify market trends, monitor
competitors, and accomplish strategic investment intelligence.

BT Tymnet's Dialcom Services
     BT Tymnet's Dialcom services, through which CGS is accessed, offers the
most sophisticated, comprehensive package of business communication and
information services available today. Besides the Dialcom electronic mail
service, which is available worldwide, other communication services include fax
and telex messaging, UpFront(r) PC communications software, batch mail file
transfer, conferencing, and bulletin boards. Dialcom news and information
services include electronic newswires, news clipping services, business and
financial news, travel information and reservations, electronic publishing,
links to other databases, and now, CGS.
     In addition, there are electronic forms, electronic calendars, text
processing and spelling dictionary, and database management support services
which increase office productivity.

BT Tymnet Inc.
     BT Tymnet Inc., an international value-added network supplier, is one of
the world's largest providers of public, private, and hybrid network solutions.
The company owns and operates the TYMNET(r) Network which offers protocol
conversion, error-protection, enhanced security features, electronic data
interchange (EDI), electronic transaction services (point-of-sale), and
electronic messaging. The TYMNET Network is accessible from most countries
throughout the world.


                               # # #

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   BT TYMNET SELECTED BY PRODIGY TO PROVIDE
                              NATIONWIDE ACCESS

     SAN JOSE, California, September 6, 1990 -- BT Tymnet Inc., provider of the
international value-added network TYMNET(r), announced today that it has been
selected by Prodigy Services Company, a partnership of IBM and Sears, to provide
nationwide access to the PRODIGY(r) service, which was launched nationally this
morning.
     With the utilization of the TYMNET Network, the PRODIGY service becomes the
nation's first coast-to-coast system linking families to information and
services for a low, flat fee.
     For the sixty million Americans that have potential access to a personal
computer, the PRODIGY service is an affordable way to manage their personal
finances, call up current information and advice on demand, shop from home,
exchange mail, plan travel activities, play challenging games and help educate
their children at the touch of a few key strokes. With only regional coverage
available previously, BT Tymnet now makes the PRODIGY service available
nationwide.

BT TYMNET SELECTION
     Prodigy is building its own telecommunications system by erecting Prodigy
Local Sites (PLSs) across the country. These sites are being supplemented by BT
Tymnet in over 300 locations, providing a total of approximately 500 access
sites in the U.S. "BT Tymnet has allowed us to offer the PRODIGY service on a
national basis two years earlier than if we continued to build a network on our
own, " said Prodigy President Theodore Papes.
     "We chose BT Tymnet not only because it is the leader among Value-Added
Networks in access coverage, but also because of the flexibility of its
software-based solution, their willingness to work together with us, and their
responsiveness to our requests," added Papes.
     Said BT Tymnet President and CEO Mark Baker, "We view our partnership with
Prodigy as a alliance with one of the most innovative companies today, with the
potential to be a major force in the '90s. Our commitment to Prodigy is
evidenced by our major network upgrade of over 200 TYMNET sites to support 2400
bps, and the addition of 10 new sites specifically for this customer."

NETWORK CONFIGURATION
     Prodigy has co-located IBM Series 1 computers at BT Tymnet node sites in
New York, Fairfax, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, San Francisco and Newport Beach.
Multiple Series 1 computers at these hub sites can each support up to 256
simultaneous users and are front ended by BT Tymnet Compact XL Engines (packet
switches).

PRODIGY
     The PRODIGY service enables families with personal computers to select a
broad range of personalized information, education and entertainment, send mail
electronically, and conduct many transactions -- including shopping, securities
trading, banking and travel reservations. Members of the PRODIGY service receive
these features through their regular telephone line. Unlike other on-line
services, Prodigy charges a flat fee with no per minute charges.

BT TYMNET INC.
     BT Tymnet Inc., an international value-added network supplier, is one of
the world's largest providers of shared, dedicated and hybrid network solutions.
The company owns and operates the TYMNET(r) Network which offers protocol
conversion, error-protection, enhanced security features, electronic data
interchange (EDI), electronic transaction services (point-of-sale), and
electronic messaging.

BT Tymnet and  TYMNET are trademarks or registered trademarks of British
Telecommunications plc.
PRODIGY service is a registered trademark of Prodigy Services Company


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 BRITISH TELECOM REVEALS GLOBAL VALUE-ADDED DATANET PLANS

     SAN DIEGO, California, September 25, 1990 -- Plans for worldwide
value-added data communications services, directly available to customers in
the world's top countries -- accounting for 80 per cent of global
communications volume -- were unveiled today by British Telecom.
     Global Network Services (GNS) is a further phase of British Telecom's
corporate strategy to provide the multinational business community with
communications on a global scale, backed up by a round-the-clock management
service that will respond to their needs quickly and efficiently.
     GNS will offer enhanced services based on data-handling facilities shared,
leased or owned, and managed by British Telecom in 20 countries. They integrate
a variety of facilities:
   -  the value-added network in the U.S. operated by BT Tymnet
   -  British Telecom's managed X.25 packet network in the UK (PSS) and its
international service (IPSS)
   -  the network nodes operated by BT Tymnet to provide value-added data
services in 18 other countries, an increase of seven in the last year.
     In addition, GNS will offer transborder services in 84 other countries. In
34 of these, where the local public data netwokis based on TYMNET technology,
enhanced data services similar to GNS will be available. In total, GNS access
will reach more than 100 countries.
     Mr. David Dey, Managing Director of British Telecom's Communications
Systems Division, said: "Major business organizations nowadays realize that
they need to operate globally if they are to stay in the race for markets and
profits. Reliable managed global communications and predictable costs are
essential for these operations. The worldwide marketplace for managed data
network services is worth, perhaps, tens of billions of dollars annually, and
is growing at more than 30 per cent a year.
     "GNS is designed to meet their value-added data communications needs,
providing them with many benefits. With British Telecom, our worldwide business
customers will have a full-time, professional partner in value-added data
networking, with the expertise to help them solve one of their most pressing
problems- control and management of their managed data communications networks.
GNS will use British Telecom's CONCERT(tm) network management capability to
offer customers integrated end-to-end data network management."

     With GNS, British Telecom will offer:
   -  a managed value-added data network service allowing users to transfer   
      value-added data from one location in the world to another
   -  electronic messaging, electronic data interchange (EDI), information        
      retrieval and transaction services
   -  customer-specific and specialized services involving configuration of 
      the managed service to meet the specific needs of the large 
      multinationals for enhanced data communications tailored to their 
      individual requirements; this service may include hybrid data networks
      and the provision of customer-premises equipment and service level 
      agreements.

     Global Network Services will conform to international standards and offer a
common set of features in the UK, US and all other countries where GNS is
available. Each customer will be offered one-stop shopping - a single point of
contact with British Telecom for ordering and providing service and for
reporting and repairing faults for all GNS services in a particular location.
There will also be the option of single currency billing.
     Mark Baker, President and CEO of BT Tymnet Inc. said, "Multinational
corporations require sophisticated international networks to assist them in
meeting their goals. Global Network Services will provide them with the best in
network access, support and value-added services available."

    Other features of GNS will include:

   -  comprehensive worldwide coverage over a single standard value-added data
      network with defined worldwide service levels.
   -  universal connectivity between protocols, systems, and organizations
   -  rapid flexibility in connection, expansion and reconfiguration
   -  integrated network management for security, reliability, responsiveness
      and control
   -  unified account management with a single contact giving worldwide support
   -  unified worldwide usage accounting and flexible transborder billing
   -  worldwide help desk, fault diagnosis and problem resolution facilities,
      with local or regional support and consultancy.

The countries in which British Telecom directly manages value-added
data-handling facilities include Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, German Federal Republic, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, and the
USA. In these countries, British Telecom will manage and be responsible for the
entire value-added data service. In Japan, the Network Information Service
company (NIS), a British Telecom affiliate, sells and services the data products
which are part of GNS.
     GNS is being announced to a world audience of communications experts
attending the Tele-Communications Association (TCA) convention this week in San
Diego, California, and at news conferences in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Milan,
Amsterdam, and Hong Kong.

                              # # #

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BT TYMNET AND RADIO AUSTRIA COMMUNICATIONS ANNOUNCE GNS AGREEMENT
Partnership Opens Door to Eastern Block

     SAN DIEGO, California, Tuesday, September 25, 1990 - BT Tymnet Inc.,
provider of the international value-added network TYMNET(r), and Radio Austria
Communications, a government owned telecommunications company, have agreed to
cooperate in the provision of BT's newly announced Global Network Services
(GNS), utilizing the TYMNET Global Network (TGN). The agreement is the first
step toward international co-operation between BT Tymnet and Radio Austria
Communications.
     Under the agreement, BT Tymnet will operate a node in Austria through Radio
Austria Communications under a "one-stop shopping" principle.  This local node
in Vienna will be directly connected to nodes in Frankfurt and Geneva and will
provide BT Tymnet the ability to offer the full range of BT's End-to-End GNS in
Austria by January, 1991. This includes dial-up and leased-line access and
value-added network services identical to those currently provided in the United
States.  Radio Austria Communications will also act as a local support center
for BT's GNS.

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE AGREEMENT
      "The arrangement with Radio Austria Communications has tremendous
significance for both parties," states Mark Baker, President and CEO of BT
Tymnet and British Telecom Inc. "The agreement not only provides us the ability
to deliver BT's GNS to multinational customers in Austria, but more important,
it allows us direct access to expanding BT's GNS to Eastern Bloc countries as
well."

FURTHER COOPERATION
     The agreement is the first in a number of possible steps toward
international cooperation between BT Tymnet and Radio Austria Communications and
the provision of managed data network services. Other steps include:  expansion
of GNS services to Eastern Bloc countries, the establishment of a direct local
sales and support staff for BT's GNS to local multi-national corporations, and
the operation, by Radio Austria Communications, of a domestcmanaged data
network service.
     In addition, Radio Austria Communications is in the process of establishing
a high-capacity, private, leased-line domestic network to resell bandwidth to
customers. Potential synergies between this network and BT's TYMNET Global
Network could mean sharing capacity of Radio Austria Communications' private
network to provide long distance, leased-line access services to BT and BT
Tymnet customers who require increased bandwidth for specific applications and
services.

RADIO AUSTRIA COMMUNICATIONS
     Radio Austria Communications is a government-owned telecommunications
company providing public telecommunications services such as telegram, telex,
packet switched data, leased circuits as well as valued-added services like MHS
(electronic mail, X.400), gateways between different telematic services, and
EDI/EDIFACT.  The company serves customers worldwide, particularly in Austria,
China, Eastern Europe and the United States. In early 1991, Radio Austria
Communications is to operate and market a nationwide redundant digital
value-added network offering bit rates from 2.4 Kbps to 1,544 Mbps.

                                 # # #


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     BRITISH TELECOM ANNOUNCES FRAME RELAY FOR TYMNET GLOBAL NETWORK

                   Reveals Broadband Migration Strategy

WASHINGTON, D.C., January 29, 1990 --  British Telecom detailed its course today
for providing global, broadband data networks.  The initial phases of the high
speed network will incorporate frame relay software interfaces into the TYMNET
Global Network (TGN). First customer services will be available in the second
quarter of 1991 and offered initially in the United States, followed by the UK,
Europe and the Pacific Rim.

Broadband Migration Strategy
     British Telecom's frame relay strategy for the TYMNET Global Network is to
provide a consistent migration path to the Broadband ISDN (B-ISDN)/ATM
(Asynchronous Transfer Mode) networks of the future. As the first step toward
the new technologies, BT will deploy frame relay as an access interface. With
further enhancements to backbone network sites utilizing the Turbo Engine, BT's
high-end packet switch, British Telecom will meet the growing customer need for
higher speed and bandwidth connectivity for remote LAN interconnections, FAX,
electronic image transmission and conference video. The complete migration
strategy will be implemented in the TYMNET Global Network over the next three
years.

British Telecom's Commitment
     "The future of networking is digital and our migration plans support the
easiest, most cost-effective transition to that world as possible. We're
committed to providing a global, standards-based, value added network solution
to our customers. British Telecom is one of the leading companies in the
industry and has demonstrated the experience and presence to deliver the network
of the future to the desktops of the world," said Mark Baker, President and CEO
of BT Tymnet.

Development Offers New Features
     The first stage of BT's network development will create a "hybrid" frame
relay backbone to transport both current TYMNET-II internodal protocol and frame
relay traffic. This frame relay software interface will statistically multiplex
user data and provide the basis for a frame relay-based LAN interconnect
service. Available in the United States during second quarter of 1991, features
of this service include Permanent Virtual Circuit (PVC)-based frame relay
connections, static frame relay routing and is supported on both current Engine
and Turbo technology.
     Stage two of the development will launch a wideband frame relay backbone
capable of transporting node code traffic over frame relay. Available in 1992
and operating exclusively on Turbo Engines at T1/E1 speeds, the features of the
service include Switched Virtual Circuit (SVC)- based frame relay connections,
dynamic routing, and TCP/IP TELNET gateways. LAN interconnect service allows
communication among routers connected via X.25 and routers connected via frame
relay.
     The third stage will be a broadband backbone for the TYMNET Global Network,
operating at speeds of T3/E3 and featuring higher throughput and lower delay
with the ability to transport isochronous traffic. This broadband backbone,
anticipated in the second half of 1994, allows flexible capacity upgrades of
both access interfaces and the backbone as needed.

                                   _______




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

       BRITISH TELECOM'S CONCERT DEMONSTRATES FIRST EVER FORUM-DEFINED
                INTEROPERABILITY INTERFACE WITH UNGERMANN-BASS

       Additional Demonstration of Interoperability Between Concert and
     Timeplex And Announcement of Intention to Support SNMP Within Concert

January 29, 1991 -- Washington D.C. -- Concert, British Telecom's platform for
advanced network management, demonstrates support for both OSI interfaces and
proprietary protocols in live interoperability demonstrations at the
Communication Networks '91 exhibition in Washington D.C. (January 29-31, 1991).
In addition, British Telecom announces its intention to provide support for SNMP
within Concert to offer customers a migration path from existing protocols.
     The demonstrations are based on a live network which is managed by the
cornerstone of British Telecom's Concert program* - the Concert Integrated
Management System (IMS).  The Concert IMS is linked to an Ungermann-Bass
Access/One wiring enclosure via the recently announced NetDirector LAN
management system. The Concert IMS is also linked to Timeplex multiplexers.
     For the Ungermann-Bass demonstration, the Concert IMS receives information
from NetDirector.  Live alarms from an Access/One wiring enclosure are relayed
to NetDirector, which then passes a Network Management Forum-defined message
over an X.25 link to the Concert IMS. This is the first ever demonstration of
multivendor interoperability utilizing Network Management Forum Release 1
specifications.
     Roger Bertman, vice-president of marketing at Ungermann-Bass, said:
"Ungermann-Bass is pleased to participate with our OSI partner British Telecom
in this powerful demonstration of network management capability for the future."
Martin Cassidy, British Telecom LAN business manager commented: "The
demonstration shows British Telecom's clear intent to work with its partners to
provide customers with the benefits of end-to-end management solutions based on
open principles. The Communication Networks demonstration is the first fruit of
the OSI development agreement between British Telecom and Ungermann-Bass
announced in April 1990."
     The Concert/NetDirector demonstration illustrates the ability of Concert to
share information with element management systems from other vendors using OSI
management interfaces, although these systems may themselves be proprietary or
SNMP-based. Plans to extend SNMP access direct to the Concert IMS will be
detailed later this year.
     The Timeplex interoperability demonstration shows live management of
Timeplex multiplexers. The network management protocols used are currently
proprietary and are translated into the OSI - based protocols and definitions
used internally by CONCERT via specially designed Access software on the CONCERT
IMS. This software can also enable interfaces to other proprietary protocols.
     Keith Willetts, the British Telecom executive behind Concert and also
chairman of the Network Management Forum, commented on the developments:
"Today's demonstrations are a significant first for customers looking for
products delivering the open solutions of the 1990s.  British Telecom is
committed to a major program of Cooperative Networking in its global portfolio.
The demonstrations of multivendor network management are good examples of this
approach in practice. CONCERT is utilizing not only open systems interfaces, but
is also supporting other industry interfaces through a series of cooperative
alliances with major vendors."
     Management of British Telecom's Tymnet Global Network and UK digital
circuits complete the CONCERT demonstration at Communications Networks '91.
     The Concert IMS is undergoing conformance testing in line with Network
Management Forum 1.1 specifications. It was the first product to undergo Network
Management Forum beta testing. Customer trials for the CONCERT IMS are currently
taking place.
     * CONCERT is British Telecom's name for the network management capability
it is building to internationally agreed open standards. It implements Release 1
of the Network Management Forum specifications announced in June 1990.
     The Concert IMS heads a broad portfolio of British Telecom products and
services that will offer open network management through the Concert
capability.
     The Concert IMS is built on an open computer platform using a Posix -
conformant operating system. It utilizes the powerful Oracle database to store
management information, and X. 11 windows interface to give high definition
graphical user interface. The Communication Networks '91 demonstration uses a
SunSparc workstation, but the software can be transferred to other compatible
hardware platforms. The system can form part of an in-house solution to network
management or be used by service providers to manage a client's network.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BT NORTH AMERICA TO BUILD PRIVATE NETWORK FOR
CANADIAN EMPLOYMENT AND IMMIGRATION COMMISSION

ANAHEIM, California, June 4, 1991 -- BT North America Inc. today announced that
it will build a private network for the Canadian Employment and Immigration
Commission (CEIC).  The contract is worth $7.1 million ($8.3 million Canadian)
over five years.
     The network, called CEINET, represents a number of firsts for BT North
America.  It will be the first TYMNET(r) private network wholly within Canada.
CEINET will be one of the first to implement the new generation of TYMNET
hardware- the Turbo and PXL Engines.  CEIC will be the first in Canada to use BT
North America's Concert Data Manager(tm)1000 for open network management
capability.  Also, BT North America has developed a Burroughs Poll Select (BPS)
interface specifically for CEIC.

CEIC
     CEIC is the branch of the Canadian government responsible for unemployment
insurance, employment and management of immigration.  The current proprietary
CEIC network connects remote terminals via multi-drop leased lines to Unisys
hosts.  The primary applications are; on-line insurance supporting unemployed
workers; NESS, an information system designed to provide faster service and more
accurate information to CEIC's worker and employer clients; and FOSS, a system
that streamlines the management of immigration information and makes the data
readily available.
     Within CEIC there are several distinct networks including on-line Insurance
and Employment, which have four regional networks, and Immigration, which
employs a national network.  Having these independent networks resulted in a
high demand for hardware resources and presented a considerable opportunity for
consolidation.  CEIC also recognized the fact that they needed to improve their
telecommunications back-up capability.
     "The new network will allow CEIC to establish the technical infrastructure
necessary to advance our telecommunications capabilities while simultaneously
improving our unit costs." said Steve Connolly, Director General of the
Information Systems Branch at CEIC.  "BT North America was chosen via a
competitive process because they were able to provide the best technical
solution at the lowest cost," added Connolly.  According to CEIC, the primary
reasons for selecting BT North America were:

- TYMNET's open architecture allows independence from a mainframe vendor.
- Ability to support non-standard protocols (BPS).
- Integrated network management- available on a regional basis.
- Ability to switch hosts (telecommunications backup).
- Ability to support newer technologies (LANs).
- Cost-effectiveness.

     "For BT, whose mission is to become the most successful worldwide
telecommunications group, this contract marks a significant milestone," said
Mark Baker, president and CEO of BT North America.  "CEINET represents the most
up-to-date TYMNET private network utilizing some of our newest technology, from
protocol support and hardware to network management," added Baker.

DEPLOYMENT OF THE PRIVATE NETWORK
     The CEIC private network will be deployed in two phases.  Phase One will
encompass Ontario and Quebec and will provide access for over 5,000 terminals.
Based on the requirements of each site, CEINET will utilize nodes from the
complete range of TYMNET Engine family hardware.  The Turbo Engine 4800, BT
North America's high-end, open system architecture communications processor,
will be installed at CEIC hub sites in Montreal, Hull, Belleville and Toronto.
These hubs, which have Unisys host computers (except for Toronto), will be
connected via 56 Kbps links.  Another eleven cities will be equipped with PXL
Engines, a high-performance desktop node, and linked to the nearest hub site
with two or more 19.2 Kbps or 9.6 Kbps lines.  There will be a total of 119 PXLs
in CEINET (PXLs will also be co-located with the Turbo Engines at the hub
sites).  For redundancy, London, Ontario, will have two Compact XL Engines, an
intermediate size node in a TYMNET network.
     Management of the network will be handled from CEIC headquarters as well as
the regional computing centers in Belleville and Montreal. It will be provided
through BT North America's Concert Data Manager 1000, an open network management
capability built on internationally-agreed standards.  Additionally, CEIC will
run their own in-house trouble ticket system by integrating the BT Service Desk
into the Concert Data Manager.  "We welcome the opportunity to work with the
Canadian government to enable them to provide better and more cost-effective
services to their clients," said David Kingsland, General Manager of BT Canada.
     The Phase Two national expansion will bring the benefits of open systems
architecture to CEIC.  Where Phase One will be native mode, the second phase
will use the PXLs at the terminal interface for BPS protocol conversion.  This
expansion phase will add approximately another 7,000 terminals to the network.

BT NORTH AMERICA INC.
     BT North America Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT, owns and operates
the TYMNET Global Network, the world's largest international value-added network
incorporating over 4,500 nodes worldwide.  Headquartered in San Jose,
California, the company offers a continuum of services, from private and hybrid
network solutions to electronic data interchange (EDI), electronic transaction
services (ETS), and electronic messaging.  Additionally, the company offers
international private circuits, connection to U.S. Virtual Private Networks
(VPNs) from the U.K., integrated trading systems, data communications equipment
and voice messaging.  The company employs a staff of approximately 1,700 in
North America.
     British Telecommunications plc (NYSE:BTY), generally known as BT, is a
leader in worldwide telecommunications.  It operates one of the largest networks
in the world and offers a wide range of international services.  BT has annual
revenues over $20 billion and employs a staff of approximately 240,000 in 30
countries.


