                              TEST MODE ACCESS:



INSTALLED MOBILE PHONES AND TRANSPORTABLE MODELS

To enter test mode on units with software version 85 and higher you must
short pins 20 and 21 of the transceiver data connector.  An RS232 break out
box is useful for this, or construct a test mode adaptor from standard
Radio Shack parts.

For MINI TR or Silver Mini Tac transceivers (smaller data connector) you
can either short pins 9 and 14 or simply use a paper clip to short the
hands free microphone connector.

HAND HELD PORTABLE MODELS:

There are two basic types of Motorola portable phones, the Micro-Tac series
"Flip" phones, and the larger 8000 and Ultra Classic phones.  Certain newer
Motorola and Pioneer badged Micro-Tac phones do not have a "flip", but
follow the same procedure as the Micro-Tac.

8000 & ULTRA CLASSIC SERIES:

If you have an 8000 series phone determine the "type" before trying to
enter test mode.  On the back of the phone, or on the bottom in certain
older models, locate the F09... number this is the series number.  If the
FOURTH digit of this number is a "D" you CAN NOT program the unit through
test mode, a Motorola RTL4154/RTL4153 programer is required to make any
changes to this unit.

Having determined that you do not have a "D" series phone the following
procedure is used to access test mode:

Remove the battery from the phone and locate the 12 contacts at the top
near the antenna connector.  These contacts are numbered 1 through 12 from
top left through bottom right.  Pin 6, top right, is the Manual Test Mode
Pin. You must ground this pin while powering up the phone.  Pin 7 (lower
left) or the antenna connector should be used for ground.  Follow one of
these procedures to gain access to pin 6:

1.  The top section of the battery that covers the contacts contains
nothing but air.  By careful measuring you can drill a small hole in the
battery to gain access to pin 6, alternately simply cut the top off the
battery with a hack saw.  Having gained access use a paper clip to short
pin six to the antenna connector ground while powering up the phone.

2.  If you do not want to "destroy" a battery you can apply an external 7.5
volts to the + and - connectors at the bottom of the phone, ground pin 6
while powering up the phone as above.

3.  You can also try soldering or jamming a small jumper between pins 6 and
7 (top right to lower left), or between pin 6 and the antenna connector
housing ground.  Carefully replace the battery and power up the phone.  Use
caution with this method not to short out any other pin.

4.  A cigarette lighter adaptor, if you have one, also makes a great test
mode adaptor as it can be disassembled to give you easier access to pin 6.
Many are pre marked, or even have holes in the right location.  This is
because they are often stamped from the same mold that the manufacturer
uses for making hands free adaptor kits and these kits require access to
the phone's connectors.

               /  Antenna Housing
           ÚÄÄ¿
     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄ¿
     ³*    ³  ³    *³
     ÃÄÄÄÄÄÁÂÂÁÄÄÄÄÄ´      To enter test mode, ground pin 6 to either pin 7
     ³H H HÚÙÀ¿H H H³      or the antenna housing.  I personally rapped a 
     ³H H HÀÄÄÙH H H³      paper clip around the antenna housing and bent it 
     ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´      so it *ALMOST* touched the test pin.  All I had 
     ³ Back of phone³      to do was push the paper clip a little when I  
     ³ with battery ³      turned the phone on.
     ³ removed.  The³
     ³ H is a pin.  ³
     ³              ³
     ³ Counting at  ³
     ³ the top left ³
     ³ to right.    ³
     ³              ³
     ³1 2 3    4 5 6³
     ³7 8 9   101112³
     ³              ³
     ³              ³
     ³* ÚÄ¿    ÚÄ¿ *³
     ÀÄÄÁÄÁÄÄÄ-ÁÄÁÄÄÙ



MICRO-TAC "FLIP" SERIES:

This phone follows similar methods as outlined for the 8000 series above.

Remove the battery and locate the three contacts at the bottom of the
phone, the two outer contacts are raised and connect with the battery.  The
center contact is recessed, this is the Manual Test Mode connector.

Now look at the battery contacts, the two outer ones supply power to the
phone, the center contact is an "extra" ground.  This ground needs to be
shorted to the test mode connector on the phone.  The easiest way to do
this is to put a small piece of solder wick, wire, aluminum foil or any
other conductive material into the recess on the phone.  Having done this
carefully replace the battery and turn on the power, if you have been
successful the phone will wake up in test mode.

           ÚÄÄÄ¿
           ³   ³
         ÚÄÁÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
         ³                       ³
         ³ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿     ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ³
         ³        ÀÄÄÄÄÄÙ        ³
         ³                       ³
         ³ Flip phone with       ³
         ³ battery removed.  The ³
         ³ H's are pins.  Pin    ³
         ³ 2 is the test pin and ³
         ³ is recessed.  Put     ³
         ³ something in the      ³
         ³ recess so it touches  ³
         ³ the battery.          ³
         ³                 1 2 3 ³
         ³                       ³
         ³                 H H H ³
         ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


