
Legions of Lucifer ('l‚jen ov l–cifŠr) n. 1. Any multitude of followers
 of the chief evil spirit, Satan.  2. A group of Anarchists and Computer
 Experts that work together as one to cause havok in the anarchy bound
 society of this nation.


**********************************************************************
EDITORS NOTE:   Well,  the  last  real  issue  that œ.“.œ released was
             LOL-8.TXT,   but due to  some losers with  nothing better
             to do but create a  bogus  LOL-9.TXT  and release it.  So
             because of that we are skipping #9 and naming this issue,
             issue 10.  Thank you  for supporting  œegions “f œucifer!
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Also,  this used to be a CiA file,  but due to the fact that Tombstone
(CiA Founder) took down his bbs and disbanded CiA,  the writer of this
G-Ÿile (Count_Zer0) deciced to join œegions “f œucifer.   So he wanted
to  re-release  this  under  œ.“.œ  because  he  will  be releasing an0
upcoming issue of "Hacking TeleNet".
**********************************************************************


      Note:   This file may be duplicated and distributed in in any way
as long as it remains in its original state and is not modified at all.
This file  is for information only.   The writer  and/or the sysop will
not be held  responsible for any illegal use of  this text file.   Okay
enough with this legal shit, let get to business


      I have  writin  this assuming that the reader has no knowledge of
hacking or the  telenet network.   In part  1  I will discuss the basic
theory of  telenet and  how it can  be used as  a basicly safe and  fun
hacking tool.
 Telenet is a Packet Switching Network(PSN).  Since I want to make this
as  short as possible I will try to give you a *basic* understanding of
what  a PSN is and how it works. Basicly there are 3 levels to the PSN.
The 3rd and lowest is the PAD that you dial-up. This is where you enter
all  of the information.   2nd is the  actual PSN which  takes the data
you  enter  in  128k chunks  ( usualy ) and then  transmits them to the
host (1st and highest level) at baud rates ranging from 9600 to 19,200.
This  means  that  2  computers with different  baud rates  are able to
communicate  (   See  my  really  shitty  ASCII  PSN  map  <laugh>   ).
Ok,  now  you have  a  *basic*  understanding  of  how  telenet  works.
Now to the fun stuff !!!!

\Fig. 1/
ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³   VAX/host ³               ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿          ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³    level 1 ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´  PAD/telenet ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´ users ³ lvl. 1
³            ³               ³     level 2  ³          ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
³            ³               ³              ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÅÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ               ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ          ³ users ³
                                                       ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
      The  reason  we  want  to hack in  telenet is because Telenet has
access  to  the  most  computer   systems  in  the   world.    Remember
Telenet  has  access  to  computers  all  over  the  world.   When  you
consider  all  the  Networks  that these  other computers are connected
to  then  you  can see that  you can  basicly access  the entire world.
It   is also   pretty safe   because   there is now  way that   someone
can monitor all the PADs at one time.
         Ok,  now first you must find a list of telenet access numbers.
There  are  many  lists out  there ( look in phrack issue 21 ).  If you
can't  find one  then to find the telenet dialup nearest your location,
call  800-424-9494 at 300/1200 baud.   At  the '@' prompt, type 'MAIL'.
Enter     user     name     'PHONES'     with     password    'PHONES'.
So now you have a local access number.  Remember its (7E1),  so if your
screen looks fucked-up then your not set right.  After you call this is
what you do.....

*Inside the '<>' (ofcourse <CR> is return) is what you have to type....

CONNECT 2400 (or whatever baud rate it is)
<CR> <CR>
TERMINAL=<D1><CR>
@

          Ok,    now   your  to the  @  prompt.   This is  the  telenet
PAD prompt.   This  prompt  means  that  telenet  is in "command" mode.
Now we will get to the *real* fun.
   Telenet's computer systems are identified by NUA's.  This stands for
Network User Address.   The way you  connect to the NUA's are by either
typing in 'c' <nua> or just typing in the nua by itself.   We will work
w/ the 1st and most basic form on the NUA since this is a file for people
who don't know  what the hell  they're doing  (I'll make another G-phile
for the  more advanced telenet hacker ).   The  easiest form is AAA XXX,
this  is where AAA stands for an  area codea and  XXX stands  for random
numbers.    So  if I wanted  to  scan the Los Angeles  area for  example
I would type 213 123.    Here 213 is  the area  code and  123 are random
numbers.   You  must  have a atleast 4 numbers.   So 213 1 would work as
would 213 12.
           Telenet doesn't  reconize  zeros or  spaces so you could also
type 213 123  like this  213000000000000123  or  like  213123.   Ok, now
that  you  know how  to use simple  NUA's you  can start fucking around.
      So, now you can access all the networks and Unix/Vax/Primes/etc...
that  you want right?   So,  you  enter  213 123 and  suddenly it says..
                         COLLECT CONNECTION REFUSED  F4 E6
   Well, you just learned life's first lesson.  Nothing in life is free!
Yes, thats right,   the "good" systems on  telenet  you have to pay for.
This is where a NUI comes in.  This stands for Network User ID.  This is
for  users with  "accounts" on  telenet.   NUI's  are very  hard to find
these  days ( I've only had 1 in my hacking adventures ).   They  are in
the  form of  a user name ( anything ) and then  a password (6 numbers).
These  are very  hard  to  hack since there  are  no "default"  names or
passwords.  You  type  in ID <name>  and then the  password to user one.
if you  can hack out a  NUI  then you should be writing G-Philes instead
of reading them.
       But don't worry though!  There are *MANY* systems on telenet that
 are free.  The only ones that cost money are the big ones like some BIG
corporation.   By just  typing in an  area code and then a random number
( up to 3 digits ) you can find some really kewl systems ( heay, you can
hack into  McDonalds for free!!!! ).    Anywayz I  have the  most fun by
turning on  my Led Zeppelin CD and  just  randomly  typing  in  numbers.
You  will  find atleast  1  NUA that  connects for every5  you type in .
Its  not  like  phreaking  where  you  find  a  code  per  10  hours....
       Of course there are the lazy hackers who just want the NUA's with
no work,  there are many good NUA lists ( check you local p/h/a board ).
You can find a NUA lists in a few Phrack issues or on DII (Data Infinty,
Incorporated (yes once again, I must plug my organization  ya know).  If
you  want  to feel  like you  did something  then get  the NUA Attacker.
This is an IBM program that calls  telenet and  then types  in different
NUA's ( you set the range ).  It is  basicly a  code hacker for Telenet.
This can  be found  on DII (Data Infinity, Inc.)  <once again>  or  most
good p/h/a boards.
           Ok, even though this is mainly for telenet I'll help you guys
a  little bit  so  you can at  least identify the system you connect to.
first you will get....
213 123 CONNECTED (or whatever NUA)
then you will might get a system id message like..
PRIMENET 22.1.1.R27 SWWCR
This system is a Primos system...that means that you'd  type LOGIN <CR>
 and then enter you id and password.
       Heres a list of the prompts, the systems and passwords that work
sometimes...

Prompt                    System Name           Possible ID's/password/s
-------                   ------------          -------------------------
Username :                VMS/VAX               DECNET/DECNET  GUEST/GUEST
login:                    UNIX                  *unix/unix  suggest/suggest
<login>                   **Primos              GUEST/GUEST   NETLINK/NETLINK
.<login xxx,yyy>          DEC-10                5,30/GAMES   2,7/MAINT
VM/370 ONLINE             ***VM/CMS             VTAM/VTAM  SNA/SNA

* Unix systems are case sensative so always use lowercase usernames and
passwords as a rule

** This system will have a banner stating what version of Primos it is.
If it's  version 18.0 or under then type in any user id and then hit ^C
a few times for the password and you drop in!

****This will display the  "VM/370 ONLINE"  message and then a  period.
type 'logon <username>' at the '.' prompt.

    Well, those are the basic systems that I can find on telenet.  This
is  about the end of my G-Phile.  Look soon for another Telenet hacking
G-Phile from œegions “f œucifer!!!!  Till then.....

              later,
                  Count_ZER0/œ.“.œ

Suggested Reading
------------------
The Mentor's Guide To Hacking (LoDH)
Any Phrack or P/Hun you can find
And of the LoDH files you can find...
Any and all of my G-philez (all 1 of them so far, but look for more)


