An Institute for Hemp
SPECIAL REPORT #B
A Report on The Use of Cannabis Hemp as a Source of Raw Materials in the
Production of Paper:
American Grown Hemp Can Supply our Paper Needs.
 
CONTENTS:
 
Purpose or Intent of this report
 
The History of Paper-making
 
The Production of Hemp
Composition of Hemp Hurds pg 6
Summary Pg 7-8
 
The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Purpose of Original Study pg 10
Factors Justifying an Investigation pg 11
Character of Material pg 12
Operations Involved pg 13-15
Description of Test pg 15-16
Comparison of Test with Practice pg 17-20
Physical Properties of the Paper pg 20-21
Conclusions pg 21-22
 
Conclusions from the Report
 
References & Resources
 
Purpose of this Report
 
        The intent or purpose of this report is to evaluate the current
potential of using hemp as a source of raw materials for the production of
paper.
 
        In the preparation of this report it was evident that sections on
the history of paper making, and the production of hemp be included, and as
such the three reports are presented together.
 
 
John Birrenbach Founder The Institute for Hemp
 
HISTORY OF PAPER MAKING
        Since it is not the intent of this report to give a detailed history
of paper making, I provide this short synopsis, with notes as to the use of
hemp, of the paper making processes history. 
        Since the earliest time man has used things upon which to record his
ideas.  From drawing in caves to the use of tree bark and now paper, man has
sought to record his ideas so that they may be preserved.
        The first, generally regarded, preparation of paper from plant
fibers is about 500 BC 1.
        The use of hemp fibers is noted in 105 A.D. in an announcement by
Ts'ai Lun to the Emperor of China.  2
        During the next 1,700 years many different materials were used to
make paper.  With the advancement of modern textile manufacture the use of
scraps, mainly cloth and fiber textiles, for the production of paper became
the norm.
        In the early 19th century the need for a sustainable source of raw
materials to make paper was necessary.  Until the 19th Century the paper
used was in limited supply, the paper was only manufactured in areas were
textile mills were present. 3
        In 1863 the first claim of making paper from wood is made by
Augustus Stanwood and William Tower in Gardiner Maine.  With the invention
of the wood pulp process the decline and the eventual end of recycled rag
paper was certain. 4
        By the mid 20th Century the use of tree paper had become the norm,
and the use of other materials in paper production is labeled as specialty
papers.  It is also clear by the early 1900's that the use of trees for
paper production is only a transitional material at best as tree production
can not be sustained.  5
        In the early 1980's environmental groups bring pressure on the U. S.
Government and companies producing paper from trees to stop the practice.  At
the same time the use of recycled paper, and the search for an alternative
source of raw materials capable of supplying the U. S. with its paper needs
continues.  Conclusion:
        The use of trees in the production of paper is only a recent
development. 6 The pressure from environmentalists and the public against
the use of trees to make paper is not likely to be reduced, but rather
increased.
        The use of recycled paper can not supply the United States with its
paper requirements.
        The need to find an alternative crop that can safely produce paper is
imperative.
 
Production of Hemp
 
        As it is necessary to discuss the production of hemp as it relates
to the production of hemp hurds, the raw material sought for the purpose of
this report, I include a short synopsis on the production of hemp and its
processing into the basic raw materials the plant produces.  This synopsis
is necessarily short as the purpose of this report is to discuss the use of
hemp hurds as a paper-making material, not the cultivation and processing of
hemp.  For more information on the cultivation and processing of hemp it is
suggested that you obtain copies of The Institute for Hemp Reports #A, C, &
D for detailed information on The Laws, Cultivation Techniques, and
Processing Techniques respectively.
        To understand the production of hemp it is necessary to understand
the plant itself.
        The plant Cannabis Sativa L., is composed of a main stalk that can
grow to a height of over 18 feet, a root structure that can reach a depth of
over 2 feet.  Extending from the main stalk are leaves and branches, on the
branches grow leaves and flowers.  The plant is naturally dioecious (7), but
in some varieties there is a monecious or dual sexing is present. 8
        The stalk of the plant Cannabis L. is composed of a woody inner core
surrounded by an outer bark composed of fiber.  The outer bark contains the
fiber commonly separated and used in the production of rope, cloth and other
fiber products.  The woody inner core contains a small percentage of short
fibers. 9
        During the decortication, or fiber separation, process the inner
core is broken into small pieces, these small pieces are called Hemp Hurds.
These hurds correspond to shives in flax. 10
        Hemp is commonly grown in a variety of manners depending on the end
use of the hemp.  If hemp is grown for seed it is commonly grown in rows
approx. 1-2 feet apart, similar to corn, this allows for branching and
maximum seed production.  If hemp is grown for fiber it is generally grown
in rows as close together as 2-3 inches. 11 The hurds from hemp grown for
any reason may be used as a raw material for the production of paper. 12
        Ideally hemp cultivated for paper would be grown in a manner
consistent with that of fiber production.  By cultivating hemp in this
manner the largest volume of hemp hurds would be collected.  Additionally by
cultivating hemp in this manner the fiber would then be available for sale
to textile manufactures.
        During the previous 5,000 years Hemp Hurds, with the exception of
some relatively obscure uses, were basically a useless and uncollectible
material that was commonly left in fields or burned for fuel. 13 In this
report Hemp Hurds are considered to be of value for the production of paper.
 
The Composition of Hemp Hurds The inner surface of the hurds usually bears a
        layer of pith, consisting of thin walled cells nearly spherical or
angular, but not elongated.  They are probably of little value for paper,
but they constitute less than 1 per cent of the weight of the hurds.  The
principle weight and bulk consist of slender elongated woody cells.  The
outer surface is covered with fine secondary fibers composed of slender
elongated cells, tougher than those of the wood but finer and shorter than
those of the hemp fiber for commerce. 14
 
RETTING Nearly all the hemp previously cultivated in the United States was
        dew retted.  This would no longer be the case.  In almost every
instance of modern commercial hemp cultivation retting is now conducted in
ponds.  Hurds from water-retted hemp are cleaner and softer than those from
dew retted hemp, (15) and are therefore, more highly sought by the textile
industries.  Additionally water-retted hemp hurds should also be of a more
uniform nature and more highly sought by the paper maker.  It can be assumed
that a retting process designed for maximum paper production could be
invented.
 
YIELDS Yields of hemp production world wide range from a low of 5 tons to a
        high of 10 tons of hemp stalk per acre.  Percentages of fiber vary
from 12-30%.  This leaves approx. 70-87% Hurds remaining as a source of raw
materials in the production of paper. 16
        Yields of Hemp hurds are between 7,000 - 17,400 lbs per acre. 17 This
becomes a sizable amount of materials that could be used in the production of
paper.
        These yields have increased from less than 2.5 tons of hurds per
acre when the original study was conducted by the U. S. Department of
Agriculture. 18
 
SUMMARY
 
        Many of the problems associated with the processing of hemp that
were outlined in the U. S. Department of Agriculture Bulletin #404 have been
overcome with the advance of technology. 19
        The major drawback to using hemp hurds as a source of raw materials
was the collection process.  During the period before the original report was
prepared, there was little use of mechanical decorticators. 20 This made
collection of the hemp hurds nearly impossible.  This is no longer a problem
since the invention of many specialized machines that can process tons of
hemp per day. 21 These facilities could be located centrally for the ease of
collection of the raw materials produced.
        Presently there is very little use for hemp hurds.  With exception
to the production of particle board or methanol fuels and farm bedding there
is no use for hemp hurds other than paper production.
        Currently there is no supply of hemp hurds in the United States.  To
supply all the raw material necessary to provide paper, the United States
would need to cultivate some 10-12 million acres of hemp.  This would
produce the necessary 54. million metric tons of raw material necessary to
produce virgin paper each year. 22 Considering that the United States has
some 1 Billion acres of Farm Land, this is approx. 1% of the available Farm
Land to provide all the paper produced, in the United States, from trees on
an annual basis.  23
        Shipment of hemp hurds could be facilitated by the construction of
paper mills near the decortication mills.  The Decortication mills in turn
could be located close to the fields where hemp is cultivated.  The proper
installation of hemp cultivation in selected areas could facilitate the
shipment of raw materials to the processing facilities.
        Cultivars of hemp with little, 0.01% Tetra-Hyrodocannibinol, or no
psychoactive substances have been engineered. 24 This alone should be
incentive enough to begin cultivation of hemp on a commercial scale.
        If the proper laws were introduced so that farmers, like those in
France, Italy and Spain, could cultivate low potency varieties of hemp many
farmers would take advantage of cultivating hemp.  25
        Currently the major Cannabis crop still grown in the United States
is commonly called Sinsemilla Marijuana, or seedless marijuana.  This
material is highly prized on the illicit drug market because of its seedless
nature and high potency.  With the introduction of large scale commercial
cannabis cultivation the pollen produced by these non-psychoactive plants
would pollinate the illicit marijuana, thus producing seed and reducing its
value on the illicit drug market.  The seed, collected by the illicit
grower, would produce a lower potency marijuana than that of the previous
generation from which it was collected.  This would in effect cause the
eradication of outdoor grown marijuana in the United States at the same time
adding a valuable farm crop and reducing the destruction of the forests.
 
        Clearly with the re-introduction of hemp as a farm crop all paper
used by the United States in a given year could be grown by the American
farmer.  In addition by cultivating an additional 1-2% of the farm land we
could establish ourselves as the provider of pulp for paper to a
considerable size of the portion of the world.  This would reduce the
current trade deficit experienced by the United States.
 
        It is clear from the evidence available that the cultivation of hemp
is a simple matter.  In the traditional farm belt of the Midwest, hemp
requires no fertilizers, herbicides, irrigation, pesticides or complicated
cultivation or harvesting techniques. 26 As such hemp would be comparably
cheaper to cultivate than corn, and require less physical care to reach a
harvestable crop.  It can be assumed that with the state of current
technology that in comparison to other crops hemp would be an inexpensive
crop to cultivate.  27
 
        It can also be assumed that given the current state of technology
that it would be relatively inexpensive to process the crop into the three
(Hurds, Fiber, & Seed) raw materials that can be produced from hemp. 28
 
The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp Hurds
 
        Prior to the preparation of this report I discovered that several
companies in Europe, and the United States, still manufacture paper from
hemp. 29 I also discovered that several countries in the former Eastern bloc
are actively considering hemp as a substitute raw material for paper
production. 30
 
        Unfortunately there is little published scientific work on the
subject.  While it is quite clear that paper production from hemp is
continued to this day little technical detail about its production can be
uncovered.  As such the only work I am able to cite from is The U. S.
Department of Agriculture Bulletin #404.
 
        Since the only definitive published work is the U. S. Department of
Agriculture bulletin, and since this work is extremely technical I have
copied the important material, and added comments to them as needed.
 
The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp Hurds by Jason L. Merrill, Paper-Plant
chemist, Paper-Plant Investigations First Published Oct. 14, 1916 By the U.
S. Department of Agriculture Bulletin #404
 
        Since Hemp Hurds are to be treated in this report as a raw material
for the manufacture of book and printing papers, the qualities, supply,
probable future, and cost of the material will be considered in comparison
with wood, with which it must compete.  There seems to be little doubt that
the present wood supply can not withstand indefinitely the demands placed
upon it, and with increased scarcity economy in the use of wood will become
imperative.  This effect is already apparent in many wood-using industries,
and although the paper industry consumes only 3 per cent of the total forest
cut, it is probable that it will be affected through this economy.  Our
forests are being cut three times as fast as they grow, and as wood becomes
more expensive paper growing and reforesting will receive more attention.
Thus, naturally, a balance will be established between production and
consumption, but as this condition approaches its limiting values the price
of wood may rise to such levels that there will be a demand for other raw
materials.
        The use of waste paper in conjunction with chemical wood pulp has
increased to enormous proportions, and it is probable that the increase will
continue.  Although it is a cheaper raw material than wood, it is reasonable
to suppose that as the wood supply decreases and the price of wood pulp
advances, the price of waste paper will advance somewhat proportionately.  31
 
        It is quite clear, from the considerable amount of research
conducted, that the United States Department of Agriculture understood, in
the early part of this century, that the availability of wood as a source
for paper production would become limited or no longer desired. 32 As such
they undertook studies, like this and others, because in their words 'a
knowledge of other raw materials may be imperative." 33 Ed.
 
        In view of these conditions it is advisable to investigate the
paper-making value of the more promising plant materials before a critical
situation arises.  To be of substantial value the investigations should
include not only a determination of the quality of pulp and paper which the
material is capable of producing, but should embrace a consideration of such
relevant factors as agriculture conditions, farm practice, assembling
conditions, transportation, and probable future supply.
        Certain cultivated plants seem particularly promising because in the
harvesting of the regular crop that portion which might be utilized for paper
manufacture necessarily is either wholly or partially assembled.  To this
class of plants belong corn, broom corn, sorghum, sugar cane, bagasse, flax,
Hemp, and the cereal straws.34
 
Factors Justifying an Investigation of Hemp Hurds Hemp Hurds form a crop
        waste, in that they necessarily are produced in the raising and
preparation of Hemp fiber, and their present use and value are comparatively
insignificant. 35
 
        The factors that justified the investigation of Hemp Hurds in 1916
are no longer valid, as the production of Hemp was discontinued, on a large
scale in the late 1940's, and entirely by the late 1960's, and Hemp Hurds
are no longer a farm waste. 36 Hemp Hurds are no longer considered of little
value.  In fact the Hurd of the plant could be used to manufacture many
products from Methanol fuels to Non-Wood Particle Board.  When properly
considered the Hurd from the plant may be the most valuable part of the
plant.  37
        The factors that justify its re-investigation today are on a
different scale of need and importance.  The main factors justifying the
re-investigation of alternative raw materials for the production of paper
are:  Primary is the need for a rural development plan that adds billions of
unsubsidized dollars into the farm economy.  Secondary is the need to halt
the wholesale destruction of the remaining old growth forests, as is evident
in the material available through other organizations.  Tertiary to this is
the need to reduce the pollution caused by the production methods currently
employed in the manufacture of paper products.  Ed.
 
        Without doubt, Hemp will continue to be one of the staple
agricultural crops of the United States.  The wholesale destruction of the
supply by fire, as frequently happens in the case of wood, is precluded by
the very nature of the Hemp raising industry.  Since only one yearUs growth
can be harvested annually the supply is not endangered by the pernicious
practice of overcropping, which has contributed so much to the present high
and increasing cost of pulp wood.  The permanency of the supply of Hemp
Hurds thus seems assured. 38
 
        It is quite clear that the people at the Department of Agriculture
in the early 1900's felt that Hemp was going to continue to be a staple crop
in the United States.  Unfortunately the U. S. Department of Agriculture did
not foresee the establishment of a total ban on the crop in 1937. 39 It is
also clear, and stated many times in this bulletin, and elsewhere, that with
the 'increased use of the machine brake' Hemp use as a raw material in
general would be increased. 40 Ed
 
Character of the Material
 
        No reliable data were secured as to the proportion of bast fiber in
the total shipment of 4 tons, although two hand separations of small
representative samples gave results averaging 8 per cent.  ...  Since the
length of the ultimate Hemp wood fiber averages 0.7 mm., it is natural to
assume that the bast fiber would tend to increase the strength of the paper
produced from the Hurds. 41
        From the pulp-maker's standpoint the great irregularity in
thickness, length, and mass of the woody pieces militates decidedly against
economy in pulp production.  The smaller pieces reduce by chemical treatment
sooner than the larger fragments and are thereby overtreated, which results
in a lower yield of cellulose fiber and a product composed of undertreated
and overtreated fibers, the production and use of which are not satisfactory
or economical.  It probably would be found more satisfactory, therefore, to
screen or sort the Hurds and treat the various sizes separately and
differently. 42
 
        It should be noted that it appears that the Hemp Hurds used in this
test were collected from hand broke dew retted Hemp.  Hemp that has been
pond retted and broke by machine will have a greater uniformity than that
which was discussed in this report. 43 The material, produced by pond
retting and machine braking, should be considered highly prized for paper
cooking as it would have a great deal of uniformity of size and moisture
content.  Ed.
 
        Associated with the Hurds was a small quantity of chaff and dirt
composed chiefly of sand, soil, particles of Hemp leaves and flowers and
other extraneous matter.  The sand and soil were present because of the
practice of placing the stalks in the field, and the butts of the stalks
being in contact with the soil.  It is a simple matter, however, to remove
the chaff and dirt by sieving, and this practice was followed in most of the
paper tests conducted with this material. 44
 
        The technologies of the mechanical harvesters and braking machines
have eliminated this problem 45 & 46.  Hemp, after cutting, does not come in
contact with the soil thus avoiding any contamination, which would result in
the need for sieving.  Further the employment of pond retting and
centralized mechanical braking would assure that the Hemp Hurds would be
clean of foreign material.  Ed.
 
Character of the Tests In the tests described in this bulletin, the
        Department of Agriculture employed a rotary digester of its own
design, comprising a shell 5 feet 5 inches in length by 4 feet in diameter,
capable of holding about 300 pounds of air-dry Hurds.  It is believed that a
test of this size is large enough to give satisfactory results and that the
results are susceptible of commercial interpretation, while at the same time
they are sufficiently small for complete control and afford fiber yield
figures which are both accurate and reliable.  Two such rotary charges gave
enough fiber for one complete paper-making test.  47 Operations Involved In
A Test
        A complete test on Hurds comprises seven distinct operations, and
the method will be described, operation by operation, in order in which they
were conducted.
        Sieving - The Hurds for the first test were not sieved to remove
sand and dirt, but the resulting paper was so dirty that sieving was
practiced in all subsequent tests.  The Hurds were raked along a horizontal
galvanized - iron screen, 15 feet long and 3 feet wide, with 11.5 meshes per
linear inch, the screen being agitated by hand from below.  Various amounts
of dirt and chaff could be removed, depending on the degree of action, but
it was found that if much more that 3 per cent of the material was removed
it constituted chiefly of fine pieces of wood with practically no additional
sand or dirt; in most of the tests, therefore, the material was screened so
as to remove approximately 3 per cent.  It became apparent that a finer
screen would probably serve as well and effect a saving of small but good
Hurds. 48
 
        The sieving of the Hurds would not be required as the currently
employed methods in the handling and braking of Hemp stalks eliminate
contamination, as such this operation is eliminated.  Ed.
 
        Cooking - Cooking is the technical term for the operation by which
fibrous materials are reduced to a residue of cellulose pulp by means of a
chemical treatment.  In these tests about 300 pounds of Hurds were charged
into the rotary with the addition of a caustic-soda solution, such as is
regularly employed in pulp mills and which tested an average of 109.5 grams
caustic soda per liter, or 0.916 pound per gallon, and averaged 85 per cent
causticity. 49
 
        In the manufacture of Hemp Hurd paper you do not use acids As such
the pollution created with the production process could be reduced.  Ed.
 
        Determination of Yield - For determining the yield of cellulose
fiber the stock in the drain tank was washed with water until free from
waste soda solution, when, by means of a vacuum pump communicating with the
space between the bottom and the false perforated bottom, the waste was
sucked from the stock leaving the fiber with a very uniform moisture content
throughout its entire mass and in a condition suitable for removing,
sampling, and weighing for a yield determination. 50
        Washing and Bleaching - Washing and Bleaching were performed for the
purpose of bleaching the brown-colored cooked stock to a white product,
since it was regarded as highly probable that the fiber would be suitable
for book-paper manufacturer. ..  The bleaching powder used was estimated to
contain 35 per cent of available chlorine, as this is the commercial
practice, and the amount required was calculated to the bone-dry weight of
the unbleached stock. ..  In these tests it was desirable so to cook the
Hurds that the consumption of bleach would be over about 10 per cent of the
fiber. 51
 
        It should be noted that chlorine bleach is not the most desired
substance to use in bleaching Hemp, as it destroys the fiber, hydrogen
peroxide is the desired bleaching agent.  Hydrogen peroxide is an
environmentally safe chemical.  During the use of chlorine bleach many of
the dangerous pollutants like dioxin are produced, with the use of hydrogen
peroxide these materials are not produced, while at the same time providing
an adequate bleach for the paper.  Ed.
 
        Furnishing - Furnishing is the operation of charging the beating
engine with the desired kind or kinds of fiber in the proper proportion and
amount and the adding of such loading and sizing agents as may be
necessary.  As shown in the record of results, the furnish in these tests
consisted of Hurd stock alone and a various proportions of Hurds, sulphite
fiber, and soda fiber.
        Beating - Beating is that operation concerning which the paper
makers often say Tthere is where the paper is really made,U and although the
statement may not be literally true it contains a great deal of truth.  It
is the operation whereby the fibers are separated from each other, reduced
to the proper lengths, and put in such a physical or chemical condition that
they felt properly and form into a satisfactory sheet.  ..  It is during
this operation that the loading and sizing agents are incorporated and the
whole furnish is tinted either to produce a satisfactory white or the
desired color. 52
        The term Tpaper making,U as used in this publication, means the
operation of forming the finished sheet of paper from stock which has been
furnished and prepared in the beater.  In these tests a 30 inch Fourdrinier
machine of regular construction was used, a machine which often is used for
the production of paper for filling regular commercial orders.  The machine
is designed to cause the water suspension of fibers to flow on to a
traveling wire cloth, whereby the water drains away.  More water is removed
by passing the wet sheet though a series of press rolls, after which the
sheet is dried on steam-heated drums and passed through polished iron rolls,
which impart a finish to the sheet.  A Jordan refining machine was employed
in conjunction with the machine to improve further the quality of the fiber,
and a pulp screen was used in order to remove course and extraneous
materials from the fiber. 53
 
Description of Tests The nature of each complete paper test and the
        dependence of each operation on the others were such that it does
not seem advisable to submit the results of the seven tests in tabular
form.  The numerous cooks, however, which furnished the pulp for the paper
tests are presented in Table I in all essential detail.  54
 
        Since the initial cooks and runs were contaminated and improperly
run the results are omitted from this report.  Ed.
 
        Run No. 141 was made from the stock of cooks Nos. 308 and 309 in
practically the same manner as run No 140.  The stock ..., made into a
furnish of 14.7 per cent of sulphite and 85.3 per cent of Hurd stock, loaded
with 14.9 per cent of clay, sized with 1.26 per cent of resin size ...  The
stock acted well on the machine and produced a sheet of better quality than
any preceding, with the exception of the color, which was due to using too
small a quantity of blue.  56
 
        Run No. 144 was intended as a duplicate of run No. 143.  Stock from
cooks 317 and 318 was given a medium brush and washing for one hour and a
further medium brush of one hour, bleached with 11.4 per cent of bleach, and
made into a furnish composed of 15.5 per cent of sulphite, 35.5 per cent of
soda poplar, and 61 per cent of Hurd stock, loaded with 21.4 per cent of
clay, sized with 1.17 per cent of resin size, hard brushed for one hour,
tinted by the expert colorer of the company, and pumped to the stock chest.
The stock acted very well on the machine, which was speeded to 75 feet per
minute, with the Jordan refiner set at a medium brush.  The sheet is as
good, if not better, than that of run 143, and it is also a good
illustration of the extent to which proper tinting will enhance the general
appearance of a paper.  The poor appearance of the samples of previous runs
is due largely to lack of proper tinting.  Various degrees of whiteness,
however, are demanded by the trade. 57
 
        After running several runs of paper the operators were able to work
out the bugs in the process and produced Run Nos. 141 - 144.  Clearly had
they had the material and the funding, additional runs could have been made
that may have showed an improvement on technique.  Despite the problems
encountered during the process the results of the finished product were very
favorable.  Ed.
 
Comparison of the Tests and Commercial Practice
 
        In work of this nature and on this scale it is practically
impossible to arrive at a cost of figure which would be susceptible of
commercial interpretation, and in the preliminary publication nothing will
be attempted beyond a comparison of the process used with the Hurds with
that process commercially applied to poplar wood.  The process last used
with the Hurds should not be regarded as final, satisfactory or most
suitable, as it has been shown that progress was being made up to the
conclusion of the work.
 
        In comparing the method of using Hurdss with the method of handling
poplar wood, a difference is apparent on the delivery of raw material at the
mill.  Ordinarily, poplar is received at the mill in the form of logs about
4 feet in length, which may be stored in piles in the open.  Hurds very
likely would be received baled, and it would seem advisable to store them
under cover for the following reasons:  (a) Baled Hurdss would probably
absorb and retain more water during wet weather than logs of wood, thereby
causing excessive dilution of the caustic liquor; (b) prolonged excessive
dampness might create heating and deterioration unless the Hemp were
properly retted; (c) wet Hurdss could not be sieved free from sand and
chaff.  Should further work show that the first two reasons need not be
taken into consideration, the third objection might be overcome by sieving
the Hurdss before baling.  Even then, it is probable that baled Hurdss
stored in the open would accumulate and retain considerable dirt from
factory chimneys, locomotives, and wind.  Checked pulp wood exposed in the
open invariably suffers from these causes. 58
 
        The real comparison in the modern handling of Hurdss to wood should
be clarified.  With the invention of pond retting, the machine brake and
centralized processing the paper mill would be only a small part of a larger
enterprise involved in the cultivation and processing of the Hemp crop.  The
paper mill could in effect govern the processing of Hemp in the retting and
braking facilities to meet the demand of the paper mill.  Thus the storage or
contamination problem would not affect the efficient production of paper.
Ed.
 
        In the preparation of the raw material for the digesters there is
likewise considerable difference between Hurdss and poplar wood.  The former
apparently requires only a moderate sieving to remove sand and chaff, which
operation doubtless would require only a small amount of labor and the
installation of simple machinery of low power consumption.  In preparing
poplar for digestion, the 4 foot logs are chipped by a heavy, comparatively
expensive chipper of high power consumption, after which the chips are
sorted by sieving, the large pieces being rechipped.  There would be a
noteworthy difference in the installation, operating, and depreciation costs
of the two equipments, and this difference would counterbalance to a
considerable extent the difference in cost of raw material storage. 59
 
         It appears that in the initial processing of the raw material that
the processing of Hemp would be an easier matter than that of logs.  Since I
have previously addressed the storage and contamination factor these are no
longer a contributing factor.  The result is that Hemp processing for paper
over tree logs is a net gain, in favor of Hemp, at this point of the
processing. Ed.
 
        The weight of Hurdss which are capable of being charged into a
rotary is a decidedly unfavorable factor.  The weight of a cubic foot of
Hurdss varies somewhat with the proportion of bast fiber, but averages 5.4
pounds, which, compared with a cubic foot of poplar chips at 8.93 pounds,
represents a digester charge of 60.5 per cent of the weight of a poplar wood
charge, or, in terms of fiber capacity, the Hurdss charge would yield 38.6
per cent as much fiber as the wood charge.  The Hurdss upon being baled for
transportation may be broken and crushed to such a degree that the weight of
the charge may be increased, and it might be found possible to increase the
charge weight by steaming or by the employment of tamping devices.  This
small weight of charge constitutes one of the most serious objections to the
use of Hurdss in paper manufacture. 60
 
        This is the only serious objection to the use of Hurdss for an
existing paper manufacturer.  With the production of new paper mills and the
use of slightly larger rotaries this problem could be eliminated.
Regardless, this reduction in production is not a major consideration even
for the current paper manufacturer.  Ed.
 
        The yield of total fiber obtained from the Hurdss may be placed at
35 per cent of bone dry fiber calculated on the bone dry weight of Hurdss
used, or 33.1 per cent of air dry fiber calculated on air-dry Hurdss.  The
yield of bleached fiber was not determined in this preliminary work, but may
be safely estimated as 30 per cent, which is low when compared with a yield
of about 47 per cent of bone-dry bleached fiber from bone-dry poplar wood.
It is believed quite possible that satisfactory cooking conditions may be
found which will give a higher yield than was obtained during these tests.
The stock should be classified as easy bleaching, and 11.4 per cent of
bleach is a satisfactory figure, although a little high. 61
 
        While the yield of fiber is somewhat reduced, this appears to be a
problem that can be overcome.  The classification of 'easy bleaching' is a
very positive consideration as the cost of bleach is a major consideration
in the use of a raw material for paper production.  Again the use of hydrogen
peroxide, which can not be used in the production of tree paper, as a
bleaching agent is another significant factor in the reduction of pollution,
a hidden cost of production.  Ed.
 
        As to beating cost, in the last two and most satisfactory tests the
total washing and beating time was three hours, which may be about an hour
more than ordinarily is used in making papers of this grade, although the
practice varies to a considerable extent.
        In regard to furnish, there is such a diversity of practice that it
is difficult to make a comparison, but if the Hurds stock can be produced as
cheaply as soda-poplar stock, the furnish used in these last two tests should
be regarded as satisfactory to the book and printing paper manufacturer.
        The finish of the paper was not all that might be desired, but that
was almost entirely due to the calender stack available for the work, which
composed of nine light rolls, many of which were about 6 inches in diameter
and which had not been reground for some time.  From a small test on a large
calender stack it was readily shown that the paper produced is capable of
taking a satisfactory finish.
        This comparison, satisfactory in many respects, develops two factors
which are decidedly unfavorable to Hemp Hurds, namely, raw material storage
and digester capacity, and they must be taken into full account in
considering the paper-making value of this material, although it should be
recognized that investigation may result in the material improvement of
these conditions.  Moreover, it is not at all improbable that further
investigation would develop more satisfactory treating conditions and more
suitable furnish compositions, and the belief in this possibility is
strengthened by the fact that material progress was being made at the
conclusion of this work. 62
 
        The only serious factor reducing the economic viability is the
storage and processing problems that were overcome in the late 1930's (63)
and improved upon since. 64 Thus we could say that 'material progress was
made' after the conclusion of this work in 1916, in regards to storage and
processing.  Ed.
 
        Calculations on the raw material and acreage for a permanent supply
for a pulp mill producing 25 tons of fiber a day from 300 days per annum or
7,500 tons per annum, give the comparison between Hurdss and wood shown in
Table II. 65
 
        The most important point derived from this calculation is in regard
to areas required for a sustained supply, which are in the ration of 4 to
1.  Every tract of 10,000 acres which is devoted to Hemp raising year by
year is equivalent to a sustained pulp - producing capacity of 40,500 acres
of average pulp-wood lands.  In other words, in order to secure additional
raw material for the production of 25 tons of fiber per day there exists the
possibility of utilizing the agricultural waste already produced on 10,000
acres of Hemp lands instead of securing holding, reforesting, and protecting
40,500 acres of pulp wood land.  66
 
        This is the most significant results of these tests.  Every 10,000
acres of Hemp, in 1916, could replace 40,500 acres of trees 'of average
pulp-wood lands.' It must be remembered that in 1916 the average yield was
below 2.5 tons of mature stalk.  Currently world wide production is at a
minimum of 5 (metric) tons to a maximum of 10 tons of stalk per acre. 68
Given that all other factors remain constant that means that the mill, sited
as, needing 10,000 acres of Hemp or 40,500 acres of trees would now only
require 2,500 to 5,000 acres of Hemp or the same 40,500 acres of trees.
This changes the ratio of Hemp to trees from 1:4, in the original study to a
low of 1:8.1 or to a high ratio of 1:16.2.  This is supposing that the
ability of sustained production of pulp can be maintained, which according
to current information can not be done.  Hemp on the other hand is an annual
sustainable crop. 69 Ed.
 
Physical Properties of the Papers Produced
 
        Samples of paper produced in the seven tests were submitted to the
Leather and Paper Laboratory of the Bureau of Chemistry.  The report of that
bureau on its tests is given in Table III. 70
        There is no system of numerically recording the general appearance
and Tlook throughU of a paper, but it can be stated that only papers Nos.
143 and 144 are satisfactory in these respects, the other sample being more
or less thickly specked with shives.  The general character and tests of
these papers correspond very closely with No 1 machine finish printing
paper, according to the specifications of the United States Government
Printing Office, which call for a sheet not exceeding 0.0035 inch in
thickness, strength not less than 12 points, free from unbleached or ground
wood pulp, and ash not over 10 per cent.  The strength factor of such papers
is about 0.28.  The ash should not be over 10 per cent for this grade of
paper, but in spite of the larger amount used the physical tests are
sufficiently high.  It is to be noted that the physical tests of samples
Nos. 138 to 142, inclusive, are higher than Nos. 143 and 144 in which 23 per
cent of soda poplar was used, which shows clearly that Hemp Hurd stock
imparts strength and folding endurance to a greater extent than does
soda-poplar stock, but will produce a somewhat harsher and stronger sheet and
one of higher folding endurance.  Undoubtedly, there is more dirt in the
samples than would be tolerated by the trade, but this was expected since in
this preliminary work the raw material was sieved by hand screens instead of
by automatic machines which would sieve more thoroughly. 71
 
        It appears from the tone of the report that even though the paper
produced may be somewhat out of standard that these standards may be
regarded as only a guide for perfection in paper.  It is also clear that the
testers were impressed by the characteristics of the paper produced.  Ed.
 
Conclusions
 
        There appears to be little doubt that under the present system of
forest use and consumption the present supply can not withstand the demands
placed upon it.  By the time improved methods of forestry have established
an equilibrium between production and consumption, the price of pulp wood
may be such that a knowledge of other raw materials may be imperative. 73
        Semicommercial paper-making tests were conducted, therefore, on Hemp
Hurds, in cooperation with a paper manufacturer.  After several trials,
under conditions of treatment and manufacture which are regarded as
favorable in comparison with those used with pulp wood, paper was produced
which received very favorable comment both from investigators and from the
trade and which according to official test would be classed as a No. 1
machine-finish printing paper. 74
 
        The conclusions drawn by the author of the U. S. D. A. report are
significant in that paper of the highest quality was produced using Hemp
Hurds.  Provided that improvements were made in the production and handling
of the crop the use of Hemp as a paper making material seemed to be a very
viable alternative.
        The accuracy of the conclusions drawn in this report can be noted in
a 1917 report to the U. S. D. A. in which is quoted "Because of the scarcity
of raw materials for paper making and the increased tonnage of Hemp Hurds,
the matter was placed before a large paper company, with the result that the
entire year's output of a Hemp braking mill has been contracted for by a
commercial firm.  The Hemp braking mill from which this supply of Hurdss
will be obtained is the largest of its kind in the United States and was
installed largely as a result of this investigation in 1916.  It is
anticipated that further expansion in this direction will take place in the
next few years." 75 Ed.
 
CONCLUSIONS TO THE ENTIRE REPORT:
 
        Since the dawn of time various materials have been used for the
production of paper materials. 76
        Currently the main raw material used to produce paper is wood logs.
77 Current public knowledge and opinion is such that the use of wood for the
production of paper is hazardous to the environment.  This opinion is not
likely to change in the near future.  As such the need to search for an
alternative is imperative.
        There are many farm crops that could be used to manufacture paper.
Plants like flax, cotton, kenaf, corn and others have a proven potential to
make paper.78 Unfortunately these other materials have major drawbacks.
Either the crop does not produce enough raw material, collection is
impossible, or use of the crop is environmentally unfriendly.  Cannabis Hemp
on the other hand has none of these drawbacks, it is easily cultivated,
produces large volumes of suitable material, and is environmentally
friendly. 79
        Currently Hemp is not an alternative to the use of wood logs, for
one simple reason; the cultivation of Hemp is restricted to such a degree
that even the cultivation of non-psychoactive cultivars is not economically
possible on the scale necessary to have an impact as a source of raw
materials for the production of paper. 80 With the removal of the laws that
restrict the cultivation of non-psychoactive cultivars of Hemp the United
States could eliminate the use of wood-logs in the production of paper.
        The United States has the potential to produce enough Hemp to supply
our paper needs.  By placing only 1-2 per cent of our 1 billion acres of
available farm land to Hemp cultivation we could eliminate the need to
process wood-logs into paper, and add a valuable export commodity to reduce
the U. S. trade deficit.
 
        The introduction of Hemp to the farm economy would have many
beneficial elements.
 
PROFITS:
 
        The most beneficial element would be the addition of the most
profitable farm crop cultivated in the United States in the last 100 years.
In reports to the Department of Agriculture farmers typically reported that
they had profits of 100-300 per cent over cost. 81 Most of the profit was
made in that the farmer of old processed the crop to fiber.  Today the
farmers would be a caretaker for the crop and have little involvement in the
processing, as such the profit range may not be as high as once was.  This
is not to say that Hemp will not be a profitable crop, actually Hemp will
probably be the most profitable crop available to the American farmer.
        The cost of cultivation when compared to other crops would be
considerably less.  Hemp is a plant that when planted requires little or no
care. 82 Fertilizers, Herbicides, Irrigation, and other methods of caring
for crops are not applicable to Hemp.  As such the equipment, and chemicals,
necessary to cultivate the crop are limited in scope and cost. 83 Hemp in
effect should be one of the cheapest and easiest crops to produce.
 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
 
        Currently the United States is in need of a rural development plan.
The use of some new, or expansion of existing, agricultural crops will need
to be an integral part of this plan for it to succeed. 84
        Hemp as a farm crop is a rural development opportunity.  With the
expansion of an industry the size of the Hemp industry comes with it a shift
in the rural economy in a positive manner.
        Billions of dollars will be added to those areas that cultivate Hemp
as a source of paper.  It can be estimated that the farms that cultivate
Hemp will enjoy the addition of between 15-30 billion dollars annually.
This does not account for the additional income, generated in the rural
economy, from the construction of the facilities that process the crop, the
mills that make the paper or the support industries that spring up.
        Hemp as the tool of a rural development plan will assist in the
revitalization of the rural farm economy without the need for government
subsidies or aid.
 
EMPLOYMENT
 
        With the introduction of Hemp, a new farm commodity, will come the
opportunity for thousands if not millions of jobs in the rural economy.
These jobs will range from the medium wage seasonal work to high paid
industrial work.  The entire spectrum of jobs will become available in the
rural economy.
 
REDUCTION IN GOVERNMENT AID
 
          The use of Hemp in agriculture will add billions to a sector of
our economy that is in desperate need for assistance.  With the addition of
Hemp to the farm economy those farm areas that cultivate Hemp will have a
reduced need for government subsidies or aid.
 
        In conclusion.
 
        It is apparent from the material presented that the need for the
re-introduction of commercial Hemp cultivation as a source of raw materials
for paper production is desirable.
 
        It is also clear that the cultivation of cannabis for commercial
uses can be done so without the production of psychoactive substances.
 
        Clearly the introduction of commercial Hemp cultivation would be a
valuable tool in a rural development plan, and assist in stopping the
decline of the American farm economy, with a highly probable reduction of
current government subsidies.
 
FOOTNOTES:  Foot Notes for Paper Report
 
 1 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943,
pg. 465
 
 2 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943,
pg. 466
 
 3 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943
 
 4 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943,
pg. 565
 
 5 USDA Bulletin #404 Hemp Hurds as a paper-making material
 
 6 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943
 
 7 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
 8 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
 9 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 2
 
 10 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 1
 
 11 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
 12 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 2
 
 13 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 3-4
 
 14 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 2
 
15 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 3
 
 16 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 3
 
 17 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
 18 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 3
 
 19 U.S. Patent Office Patent #2,127,157; #2,108,56; 2,197,683
 
 20 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 3
 
 21 U.S. Patent Office Patent # 2,197,683
 
 22 U.S. Department of Natural Resources Information Office Information on
Trees used in Paper Production for the year 1990
 
 23 U.S. Department of Agriculture Information Services, 1991
 
 24 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
 25 Letters From Midwest Farmers to The Institute for Hemp, 1989-1992
 
 26 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
 27 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
 28 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
 29 Phone Interview with Representatives of Kimberly Clark, 1991
 
 30 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
31 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 7
 
 32 U.S.D.A. Bulletins # 72, 82, 159, 309, 322, Publications relating to
materials for paper making
 
33 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 25
 
34 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 7-8
 
35 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 8
 
 36 Phone Interview with Prof Bob Robinson, U of MN Hemp Experimenter,
retired, 1991
 
 37 The Emperor Wears No Clothes, Jack Herer, 1992, Chapters 2, & 9
 
38 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 9
 
 39 Marihuana Tax Act, 1937
 
40 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 25
 
41 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 11
 
42 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 12
 
43 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 2
 
44 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 12
 
45 U.S. Patent Office Patent #2,127,157; #2,108,56; 2,197,683
 
46 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
47 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 13
 
48 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 13
 
49 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 14
 
50 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 14
 
51 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 15
 
*52 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 15
 
53 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
 
Hurds, 1916, pg. 20-21
 
58 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 21
 
59 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 21
 
60 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 22
 
61 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 23
 
62 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 23
 
63 U.S. Patent Office Patent #2,127,157; #2,108,56; 2,197,683
 
64 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
65 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 23
 
66 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 24
 
67 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 24
 
68 Letters From Prof Goloborodko, Director, All Union Bast Crops Institute,
Glukov Ukraine
 
69 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
70 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 24
 
71 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 24
 
72 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 24
 
73 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 25
 
74 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Jason Merrill, The Manufacture of Paper from Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 25
 
75 Report from the Bureau of Plant Industry to the U. S. Department of
Agriculture, 1917 p. 155
 
76 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943
 
77 Paper-making The History & Technique of an Ancient Craft, D. Hunter 1943
 
78 U.S.D.A. Bulletin #404, Lyster Dewey, The Production and Handling of Hemp
Hurds, 1916, pg. 3
 
79 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
80 21USC802 Controlled Substances Act, 1972
 
81 Letters from Farmers to the U.S. Patent Office Agriculture Office, 1800's
 
82 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
83 U.S.D.A. Motion Picture "Hemp for Victory", 1942
 
84 FARM AID, Concerts 1989-92
 


